docs/guides/examples/react-email.mdx, before:

---
title: "Send emails using React Email"
sidebarTitle: "React Email"
description: "Learn how to send beautiful emails using React Email and Trigger.dev."
---

## Overview

This example demonstrates how to use Trigger.dev to send emails using [React Email](https://react.email/).

<Note>
  This example uses [Resend](https://resend.com) as the email provider. You can use other email
  providers like [Loops](https://loops.so) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com) etc. Full list of
  their integrations can be found [here](https://react.email/docs/introduction#integrations).
</Note>

## Task code

<Warning>
  This email is built using React components. To use React components in your task, it must be a
  .tsx file.
</Warning>

```tsx trigger/sendReactEmail.tsx
import { Body, Button, Container, Head, Heading, Html, Preview } from "@react-email/components";
import { logger, task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { Resend } from "resend";

// Initialize Resend client
const resend = new Resend(process.env.RESEND_API_KEY);

// React Email template component
const EmailTemplate = ({ name, message }: { name: string; message: string }) => (
  <Html lang="en">
    <Head />
    <Preview>New message from {name}</Preview>
    <Body style={{ fontFamily: "Arial, sans-serif", margin: "0", padding: "0" }}>
      <Container style={{ padding: "20px", maxWidth: "600px" }}>
        <Heading>Hello from Acme Inc.</Heading>
        <p>Hi {name},</p>
        <p>{message}</p>
        <Button
          href="https://trigger.dev"
          style={{
            backgroundColor: "#0070f3",
            color: "white",
            padding: "12px 20px",
            borderRadius: "8px",
          }}
        >
          Go to Acme Inc.
        </Button>
      </Container>
    </Body>
  </Html>
);

export const sendEmail = task({
  id: "send-react-email",
  run: async (payload: {
    to: string;
    name: string;
    message: string;
    subject: string;
    from?: string;
  }) => {
    try {
      logger.info("Sending email using React.email and Resend", {
        to: payload.to,
      });

      // Send the email using Resend
      const { data, error } = await resend.emails.send({
        // The from address needs to be a verified email address you own
        from: payload.from || "email@acmeinc.com", // Default from address
        to: payload.to,
        subject: payload.subject,
        react: <EmailTemplate name={payload.name} message={payload.message} />,
      });

      if (error) {
        logger.error("Failed to send email", { error });
        throw new Error(`Failed to send email: ${error.message}`);
      }

      logger.info("Email sent successfully", { emailId: data?.id });

      // Return the response from Resend
      return {
        id: data?.id,
        status: "sent",
      };
    } catch (error) {
      logger.error("Unexpected error sending email", { error });
      throw error;
    }
  },
});
```

## The email

This example email should look like this:
![React Email](/images/react-email.png)

This is just a simple implementation, you can customize the email to be as complex as you want. Check out the [React email templates](https://react.email/templates) for more inspiration.

## Testing your task

To test this task in the [dashboard](https://cloud.trigger.dev), you can use the following payload:

```json
{
  "to": "recipient@example.com",
  "name": "Jane Doe",
  "message": "Thank you for signing up for our service!",
  "subject": "Welcome to Acme Inc."
}
```

## Deploying your task

Deploy the task to production using the Trigger.dev CLI `deploy` command.

## Using Cursor / AI to build your emails

In this video you can see how we use Cursor to build a welcome email.

We recommend using our [Cursor rules](https://trigger.dev/changelog/cursor-rules-writing-tasks/) to help you build your tasks and emails.

#### Video: creating a new email template using Cursor

<video
  src="https://content.trigger.dev/trigger-welcome-email-cursor.mp4"
  controls
  muted
  autoPlay
  loop
/>

#### The generated email template

![Cursor](/images/react-email-welcome.png)

#### The generated code

```tsx emails/trigger-welcome-email.tsx
import {
  Body,
  Button,
  Container,
  Head,
  Heading,
  Hr,
  Html,
  Img,
  Link,
  Preview,
  Section,
  Text,
} from "@react-email/components";

const baseUrl = process.env.VERCEL_URL ? `https://${process.env.VERCEL_URL}` : "";

export interface TriggerWelcomeEmailProps {
  name: string;
}

export const TriggerWelcomeEmail = ({ name }: TriggerWelcomeEmailProps) => (
  <Html>
    <Head />
    <Preview>Welcome to Trigger.dev - Your background jobs platform!</Preview>
    <Body style={main}>
      <Container style={container}>
        <Section style={box}>
          <Img
            src="https://trigger.dev/assets/triggerdev-lockup--light.svg"
            width="150"
            height="40"
            alt="Trigger.dev"
          />
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Heading>Welcome, {name}!</Heading>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            Thanks for signing up for Trigger.dev! You're now ready to start creating powerful
            background jobs and workflows.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            You can monitor your jobs, view runs, and manage your projects right from your
            dashboard.
          </Text>
          <Button style={button} href="https://cloud.trigger.dev/dashboard">
            View your Trigger.dev Dashboard
          </Button>
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            To help you get started, check out our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs">
              documentation
            </Link>{" "}
            and{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs/quickstart">
              quickstart guide
            </Link>
            .
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            You can create your first job using our SDK, set up integrations, and configure triggers
            to automate your workflows. Take a look at our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs/examples">
              examples
            </Link>{" "}
            for inspiration.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            Join our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://discord.gg/kA47vcd8Qr">
              Discord community
            </Link>{" "}
            to connect with other developers and get help when you need it.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            We're here to help you build amazing things. If you have any questions, check out our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs">
              documentation
            </Link>{" "}
            or reach out to us on Discord.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>— The Trigger.dev team</Text>
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Text style={footer}>Trigger.dev Inc.</Text>
        </Section>
      </Container>
    </Body>
  </Html>
);

export default TriggerWelcomeEmail;

const main = {
  backgroundColor: "#0E0C15",
  fontFamily:
    '-apple-system,BlinkMacSystemFont,"Segoe UI",Roboto,"Helvetica Neue",Ubuntu,sans-serif',
};

const container = {
  backgroundColor: "#1D1B27",
  margin: "0 auto",
  padding: "20px 0 48px",
  marginBottom: "64px",
};

const box = {
  padding: "0 48px",
};

const hr = {
  borderColor: "#2D2B3B",
  margin: "20px 0",
};

const paragraph = {
  color: "#E1E1E3",
  fontSize: "16px",
  lineHeight: "24px",
  textAlign: "left" as const,
};

const anchor = {
  color: "#A78BFA",
};

const button = {
  backgroundColor: "#7C3AED",
  borderRadius: "6px",
  color: "#fff",
  fontSize: "16px",
  fontWeight: "bold",
  textDecoration: "none",
  textAlign: "center" as const,
  display: "block",
  width: "100%",
  padding: "12px",
};

const footer = {
  color: "#9CA3AF",
  fontSize: "12px",
  lineHeight: "16px",
};
```

And then to trigger the email, you can use the following task:

```tsx trigger/triggerWelcomeEmail.tsx
import { logger, task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { Resend } from "resend";
import TriggerWelcomeEmail from "emails/trigger-welcome-email";

// Initialize Resend client
const resend = new Resend(process.env.RESEND_API_KEY);

export const sendEmail = task({
  id: "trigger-welcome-email",
  run: async (payload: { to: string; name: string; subject: string; from?: string }) => {
    try {
        to: payload.to,
      });

      const { data, error } = await resend.emails.send({
        // The from address needs to be a verified email address
        from: payload.from || "email@acmeinc.com", // Default from address
        to: payload.to,
        subject: payload.subject,
        react: <TriggerWelcomeEmail name={payload.name} />,
      });

      if (error) {
        logger.error("Failed to send email", { error });
        throw new Error(`Failed to send email: ${error.message}`);
      }

      logger.info("Email sent successfully", { emailId: data?.id });

      return {
        id: data?.id,
        status: "sent",
      };
    } catch (error) {
      logger.error("Unexpected error sending email", { error });
      throw error;
    }
  },
});
```

## Learn more

### React Email docs

Check out the [React Email docs](https://react.email/docs) and learn how to set up and use React Email, including how to preview your emails locally.

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Components" icon="puzzle-piece" href="https://react.email/components">
    Pre-built components you can copy and paste into your emails.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Templates" icon="rectangle-list" href="https://react.email/templates">
    Extensive pre-built templates ready to use.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

Adds a troubleshooting entry for react.email not being bundled correctly

docs/guides/examples/react-email.mdx, after:

---
title: "Send emails using React Email"
sidebarTitle: "React Email"
description: "Learn how to send beautiful emails using React Email and Trigger.dev."
---

## Overview

This example demonstrates how to use Trigger.dev to send emails using [React Email](https://react.email/).

<Note>
  This example uses [Resend](https://resend.com) as the email provider. You can use other email
  providers like [Loops](https://loops.so) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com) etc. Full list of
  their integrations can be found [here](https://react.email/docs/introduction#integrations).
</Note>

## Task code

<Warning>
  This email is built using React components. To use React components in your task, it must be a
  .tsx file.
</Warning>

```tsx trigger/sendReactEmail.tsx
import { Body, Button, Container, Head, Heading, Html, Preview } from "@react-email/components";
import { logger, task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { Resend } from "resend";

// Initialize Resend client
const resend = new Resend(process.env.RESEND_API_KEY);

// React Email template component
const EmailTemplate = ({ name, message }: { name: string; message: string }) => (
  <Html lang="en">
    <Head />
    <Preview>New message from {name}</Preview>
    <Body style={{ fontFamily: "Arial, sans-serif", margin: "0", padding: "0" }}>
      <Container style={{ padding: "20px", maxWidth: "600px" }}>
        <Heading>Hello from Acme Inc.</Heading>
        <p>Hi {name},</p>
        <p>{message}</p>
        <Button
          href="https://trigger.dev"
          style={{
            backgroundColor: "#0070f3",
            color: "white",
            padding: "12px 20px",
            borderRadius: "8px",
          }}
        >
          Go to Acme Inc.
        </Button>
      </Container>
    </Body>
  </Html>
);

export const sendEmail = task({
  id: "send-react-email",
  run: async (payload: {
    to: string;
    name: string;
    message: string;
    subject: string;
    from?: string;
  }) => {
    try {
      logger.info("Sending email using React.email and Resend", {
        to: payload.to,
      });

      // Send the email using Resend
      const { data, error } = await resend.emails.send({
        // The from address needs to be a verified email address you own
        from: payload.from || "email@acmeinc.com", // Default from address
        to: payload.to,
        subject: payload.subject,
        react: <EmailTemplate name={payload.name} message={payload.message} />,
      });

      if (error) {
        logger.error("Failed to send email", { error });
        throw new Error(`Failed to send email: ${error.message}`);
      }

      logger.info("Email sent successfully", { emailId: data?.id });

      // Return the response from Resend
      return {
        id: data?.id,
        status: "sent",
      };
    } catch (error) {
      logger.error("Unexpected error sending email", { error });
      throw error;
    }
  },
});
```

## The email

This example email should look like this:
![React Email](/images/react-email.png)

This is just a simple implementation, you can customize the email to be as complex as you want. Check out the [React email templates](https://react.email/templates) for more inspiration.

## Testing your task

To test this task in the [dashboard](https://cloud.trigger.dev), you can use the following payload:

```json
{
  "to": "recipient@example.com",
  "name": "Jane Doe",
  "message": "Thank you for signing up for our service!",
  "subject": "Welcome to Acme Inc."
}
```

## Deploying your task

Deploy the task to production using the Trigger.dev CLI `deploy` command.

## Using Cursor / AI to build your emails

In this video you can see how we use Cursor to build a welcome email.

We recommend using our [Cursor rules](https://trigger.dev/changelog/cursor-rules-writing-tasks/) to help you build your tasks and emails.

#### Video: creating a new email template using Cursor

<video
  src="https://content.trigger.dev/trigger-welcome-email-cursor.mp4"
  controls
  muted
  autoPlay
  loop
/>

#### The generated email template

![Cursor](/images/react-email-welcome.png)

#### The generated code

```tsx emails/trigger-welcome-email.tsx
import {
  Body,
  Button,
  Container,
  Head,
  Heading,
  Hr,
  Html,
  Img,
  Link,
  Preview,
  Section,
  Text,
} from "@react-email/components";

const baseUrl = process.env.VERCEL_URL ? `https://${process.env.VERCEL_URL}` : "";

export interface TriggerWelcomeEmailProps {
  name: string;
}

export const TriggerWelcomeEmail = ({ name }: TriggerWelcomeEmailProps) => (
  <Html>
    <Head />
    <Preview>Welcome to Trigger.dev - Your background jobs platform!</Preview>
    <Body style={main}>
      <Container style={container}>
        <Section style={box}>
          <Img
            src="https://trigger.dev/assets/triggerdev-lockup--light.svg"
            width="150"
            height="40"
            alt="Trigger.dev"
          />
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Heading>Welcome, {name}!</Heading>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            Thanks for signing up for Trigger.dev! You're now ready to start creating powerful
            background jobs and workflows.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            You can monitor your jobs, view runs, and manage your projects right from your
            dashboard.
          </Text>
          <Button style={button} href="https://cloud.trigger.dev/dashboard">
            View your Trigger.dev Dashboard
          </Button>
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            To help you get started, check out our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs">
              documentation
            </Link>{" "}
            and{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs/quickstart">
              quickstart guide
            </Link>
            .
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            You can create your first job using our SDK, set up integrations, and configure triggers
            to automate your workflows. Take a look at our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs/examples">
              examples
            </Link>{" "}
            for inspiration.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            Join our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://discord.gg/kA47vcd8Qr">
              Discord community
            </Link>{" "}
            to connect with other developers and get help when you need it.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>
            We're here to help you build amazing things. If you have any questions, check out our{" "}
            <Link style={anchor} href="https://trigger.dev/docs">
              documentation
            </Link>{" "}
            or reach out to us on Discord.
          </Text>
          <Text style={paragraph}>— The Trigger.dev team</Text>
          <Hr style={hr} />
          <Text style={footer}>Trigger.dev Inc.</Text>
        </Section>
      </Container>
    </Body>
  </Html>
);

export default TriggerWelcomeEmail;

const main = {
  backgroundColor: "#0E0C15",
  fontFamily:
    '-apple-system,BlinkMacSystemFont,"Segoe UI",Roboto,"Helvetica Neue",Ubuntu,sans-serif',
};

const container = {
  backgroundColor: "#1D1B27",
  margin: "0 auto",
  padding: "20px 0 48px",
  marginBottom: "64px",
};

const box = {
  padding: "0 48px",
};

const hr = {
  borderColor: "#2D2B3B",
  margin: "20px 0",
};

const paragraph = {
  color: "#E1E1E3",
  fontSize: "16px",
  lineHeight: "24px",
  textAlign: "left" as const,
};

const anchor = {
  color: "#A78BFA",
};

const button = {
  backgroundColor: "#7C3AED",
  borderRadius: "6px",
  color: "#fff",
  fontSize: "16px",
  fontWeight: "bold",
  textDecoration: "none",
  textAlign: "center" as const,
  display: "block",
  width: "100%",
  padding: "12px",
};

const footer = {
  color: "#9CA3AF",
  fontSize: "12px",
  lineHeight: "16px",
};
```

And then to trigger the email, you can use the following task:

```tsx trigger/triggerWelcomeEmail.tsx
import { logger, task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { Resend } from "resend";
import TriggerWelcomeEmail from "emails/trigger-welcome-email";

// Initialize Resend client
const resend = new Resend(process.env.RESEND_API_KEY);

export const sendEmail = task({
  id: "trigger-welcome-email",
  run: async (payload: { to: string; name: string; subject: string; from?: string }) => {
    try {
        to: payload.to,
      });

      const { data, error } = await resend.emails.send({
        // The from address needs to be a verified email address
        from: payload.from || "email@acmeinc.com", // Default from address
        to: payload.to,
        subject: payload.subject,
        react: <TriggerWelcomeEmail name={payload.name} />,
      });

      if (error) {
        logger.error("Failed to send email", { error });
        throw new Error(`Failed to send email: ${error.message}`);
      }

      logger.info("Email sent successfully", { emailId: data?.id });

      return {
        id: data?.id,
        status: "sent",
      };
    } catch (error) {
      logger.error("Unexpected error sending email", { error });
      throw error;
    }
  },
});
```

## Troubleshooting

If you see this error when using `react-email` packages:

```
reactDOMServer.renderToPipeableStream is not a function
```

See our [common problems guide](/troubleshooting#reactdomserver-rendertopipeablestream-is-not-a-function-when-using-react-email) for more information.

## Learn more

### React Email docs

Check out the [React Email docs](https://react.email/docs) and learn how to set up and use React Email, including how to preview your emails locally.

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Components" icon="puzzle-piece" href="https://react.email/components">
    Pre-built components you can copy and paste into your emails.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Templates" icon="rectangle-list" href="https://react.email/templates">
    Extensive pre-built templates ready to use.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
