docs/guides/examples/vercel-sync-env-vars.mdx, before:

---
title: "Syncing environment variables from your Vercel projects"
sidebarTitle: "Vercel sync env vars"
description: "This example demonstrates how to sync environment variables from your Vercel project to Trigger.dev."
---

import VercelDocsCards from "/snippets/vercel-docs-cards.mdx";

## Build configuration

To sync environment variables, you just need to add our build extension to your `trigger.config.ts` file. This extension will then automatically run every time you deploy your Trigger.dev project.

<Note>
  You need to set the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass
  in the token and project ID as arguments to the `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension. If you're
  working with a team project, you'll also need to set `VERCEL_TEAM_ID`, which can be found in your
  team settings. You can find / generate the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in your Vercel
  [dashboard](https://vercel.com/account/settings/tokens). Make sure the scope of the token covers
  the project with the environment variables you want to sync.
</Note>

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // Add the syncVercelEnvVars build extension
    extensions: [
      syncVercelEnvVars({
        // A personal access token created in your Vercel account settings
        // Used to authenticate API requests to Vercel
        // Generate at: https://vercel.com/account/tokens
        vercelAccessToken: process.env.VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
        // The unique identifier of your Vercel project
        // Found in Project Settings > General > Project ID
        projectId: process.env.VERCEL_PROJECT_ID,
        // Optional: The ID of your Vercel team
        // Only required for team projects
        // Found in Team Settings > General > Team ID
        vercelTeamId: process.env.VERCEL_TEAM_ID,
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  [Build extensions](/config/extensions/overview) allow you to hook into the build system and
  customize the build process or the resulting bundle and container image (in the case of
  deploying). You can use pre-built extensions or create your own.
</Note>

## Running the sync operation

To sync the environment variables, all you need to do is run our `deploy` command. You should see some output in the console indicating that the environment variables have been synced, and they should now be available in your Trigger.dev dashboard.

```bash
npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
```

<VercelDocsCards />

Commit message:

feat(build): Add syncNeonEnvVars extension and improve Vercel env var syncing
Add a new `syncNeonEnvVars` build extension for syncing environment variables
from Neon database projects to Trigger.dev. The extension automatically detects
branches and builds appropriate PostgreSQL connection strings for non-production
environments (staging, dev, preview).

Features of `syncNeonEnvVars`:
- Fetches branch-specific database credentials from Neon API
- Generates all standard Postgres connection strings (DATABASE_URL, POSTGRES_URL,
  POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL, etc.) with both pooled and unpooled variants
- Supports custom database name, role name, and env var prefix options
- Skips automatically in Vercel environments (Neon's Vercel integration handles this)
- Skips for production environments (designed for preview/staging/dev branches)

Improvements to `syncVercelEnvVars`:
- When running in a Vercel build environment (detected via VERCEL env var),
  values are now read from process.env instead of the Vercel API response
- This ensures the build uses the actual runtime values Vercel provides
- Removed embedded Neon-specific logic (now handled by separate extension)
- Simplified and cleaned up the extension code

Documentation updates for both extensions with usage examples and configuration
options.

docs/guides/examples/vercel-sync-env-vars.mdx, after:

---
title: "Syncing environment variables from your Vercel projects"
sidebarTitle: "Vercel sync env vars"
description: "This example demonstrates how to sync environment variables from your Vercel project to Trigger.dev."
---

import VercelDocsCards from "/snippets/vercel-docs-cards.mdx";

## Build configuration

To sync environment variables, you just need to add our build extension to your `trigger.config.ts` file. This extension will then automatically run every time you deploy your Trigger.dev project.

<Note>
  You need to set the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass
  in the token and project ID as arguments to the `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension. If you're
  working with a team project, you'll also need to set `VERCEL_TEAM_ID`, which can be found in your
  team settings. You can find / generate the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in your Vercel
  [dashboard](https://vercel.com/account/settings/tokens). Make sure the scope of the token covers
  the project with the environment variables you want to sync.
</Note>

<Note>
  When running the build from a Vercel build environment (e.g., during a Vercel deployment), the
  environment variable values will be read from `process.env` instead of fetching them from the
  Vercel API. This is determined by checking if the `VERCEL` environment variable is present. The
  API is still used to determine which environment variables are configured for your project, but
  the actual values come from the local environment.
</Note>

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // Add the syncVercelEnvVars build extension
    extensions: [
      syncVercelEnvVars({
        // A personal access token created in your Vercel account settings
        // Used to authenticate API requests to Vercel
        // Generate at: https://vercel.com/account/tokens
        vercelAccessToken: process.env.VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
        // The unique identifier of your Vercel project
        // Found in Project Settings > General > Project ID
        projectId: process.env.VERCEL_PROJECT_ID,
        // Optional: The ID of your Vercel team
        // Only required for team projects
        // Found in Team Settings > General > Team ID
        vercelTeamId: process.env.VERCEL_TEAM_ID,
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  [Build extensions](/config/extensions/overview) allow you to hook into the build system and
  customize the build process or the resulting bundle and container image (in the case of
  deploying). You can use pre-built extensions or create your own.
</Note>

## Running the sync operation

To sync the environment variables, all you need to do is run our `deploy` command. You should see some output in the console indicating that the environment variables have been synced, and they should now be available in your Trigger.dev dashboard.

```bash
npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
```

<VercelDocsCards />
