docs/deployment/preview-branches.mdx, before:

---
title: "Preview branches"
description: "Create isolated environments for each branch of your code, allowing you to test changes before merging to production. You can create preview branches manually or automatically with your git branches."
---

import UpgradeToV4Note from "/snippets/upgrade-to-v4-note.mdx";

<UpgradeToV4Note />

## How does it work?

The "Preview" environment is a special environment that you can create "branches" from. We recommend you automatically create a preview branch for each git branch when a Pull Request is opened and then archive it automatically when the PR is merged/closed.

The process to use preview branches looks like this:

1. Create a preview branch
2. Deploy to the preview branch (1+ times)
3. Trigger runs using your Preview API key (`TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY`) and the branch name (`TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH`).
4. Archive the preview branch when the branch is done.

There are two main ways to do this:

1. Automatically: using GitHub Actions (recommended).
2. Manually: in the dashboard and/or using the CLI.

### Limits on active preview branches

We restrict the number of active preview branches (per project). You can archive a preview branch at any time (automatically or manually) to unlock another slot.

Once archived you can still view the dashboard for the branch but you can't trigger or execute runs (or other write operations).

This limit exists because each branch has an independent concurrency limit. For the Cloud product these are the limits:

| Plan  | Active preview branches |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
| Free  | 0                       |
| Hobby | 5                       |
| Pro   | 20 (then paid for more) |

For full details see our [pricing page](https://trigger.dev/pricing).

## Using preview branches using GitHub Actions (recommended)

This GitHub Action will:

1. Automatically create a preview branch for your Pull Request (if the branch doesn't already exist).
2. Deploy the preview branch.
3. Archive the preview branch when the Pull Request is merged/closed.

```yml .github/workflows/trigger-preview-branches.yml
name: Deploy to Trigger.dev (preview branches)

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize, reopened, closed]

jobs:
  deploy-preview:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Use Node.js 20.x
        uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: "20.x"

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm install

      - name: Deploy preview branch
        run: npx trigger.dev@v4-beta deploy --env preview
        env:
          TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
```

For this workflow to work, you need to set the following secrets in your GitHub repository:

- `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Your Trigger.dev personal access token. View the instructions [here](/github-actions) to learn how.

Notice that the deploy command has `--env preview` at the end. We automatically detect the preview branch from the GitHub actions env var.

You can manually specify the branch using `--branch <branch-name>` in the deploy command, but this isn't required.

## Manually creating, deploying and archiving preview branches

### Creating and archiving preview branches from the dashboard

In the dashboard, you can

## Automating using GitHub Actions

## Limits

## Triggering runs on preview branches

When triggering runs for a preview branch you need to both set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` (to your Preview API key) and set `TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH` to the name of your branch.

Commit message:

Added manual deploy/archive instructions

docs/deployment/preview-branches.mdx, after:

---
title: "Preview branches"
description: "Create isolated environments for each branch of your code, allowing you to test changes before merging to production. You can create preview branches manually or automatically with your git branches."
---

import UpgradeToV4Note from "/snippets/upgrade-to-v4-note.mdx";

<UpgradeToV4Note />

## How does it work?

The "Preview" environment is a special environment that you can create "branches" from. We recommend you automatically create a preview branch for each git branch when a Pull Request is opened and then archive it automatically when the PR is merged/closed.

The process to use preview branches looks like this:

1. Create a preview branch
2. Deploy to the preview branch (1+ times)
3. Trigger runs using your Preview API key (`TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY`) and the branch name (`TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH`).
4. Archive the preview branch when the branch is done.

There are two main ways to do this:

1. Automatically: using GitHub Actions (recommended).
2. Manually: in the dashboard and/or using the CLI.

### Limits on active preview branches

We restrict the number of active preview branches (per project). You can archive a preview branch at any time (automatically or manually) to unlock another slot.

Once archived you can still view the dashboard for the branch but you can't trigger or execute runs (or other write operations).

This limit exists because each branch has an independent concurrency limit. For the Cloud product these are the limits:

| Plan  | Active preview branches |
| ----- | ----------------------- |
| Free  | 0                       |
| Hobby | 5                       |
| Pro   | 20 (then paid for more) |

For full details see our [pricing page](https://trigger.dev/pricing).

## Using preview branches using GitHub Actions (recommended)

This GitHub Action will:

1. Automatically create a preview branch for your Pull Request (if the branch doesn't already exist).
2. Deploy the preview branch.
3. Archive the preview branch when the Pull Request is merged/closed.

```yml .github/workflows/trigger-preview-branches.yml
name: Deploy to Trigger.dev (preview branches)

on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize, reopened, closed]

jobs:
  deploy-preview:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Use Node.js 20.x
        uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: "20.x"

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm install

      - name: Deploy preview branch
        run: npx trigger.dev@v4-beta deploy --env preview
        env:
          TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN }}
```

For this workflow to work, you need to set the following secrets in your GitHub repository:

- `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN`: Your Trigger.dev personal access token. View the instructions [here](/github-actions) to learn how.

Notice that the deploy command has `--env preview` at the end. We automatically detect the preview branch from the GitHub actions env var.

You can manually specify the branch using `--branch <branch-name>` in the deploy command, but this isn't required.

## Manually creating, deploying and archiving preview branches

### Using the CLI

Creating and deploying a preview branch manually is easy:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta deploy --env preview
```

This will create and deploy a preview branch, automatically detecting the git branch. If for some reason the auto-detection doesn't work it will let you know and tell you do this:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta deploy --env preview --branch <branch-name>
```

You can manually archive a preview branch with the CLI:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta preview archive
```

Again we will try auto-detect the current branch. But you can specify the branch name with `--branch <branch-name>`.

### In the dashboard

### Creating and archiving preview branches from the dashboard

In the dashboard, you can

## Automating using GitHub Actions

## Limits

## Triggering runs on preview branches

When triggering runs for a preview branch you need to both set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` (to your Preview API key) and set `TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH` to the name of your branch.
