packages/trigger-sdk/README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/a45d1fa2-0ae8-4a39-4409-f4f934bfae00/public">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/3f5ad4c1-c4c8-4277-b622-290e7f37bd00/public">
  <img alt="Trigger.dev logo" src="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/a45d1fa2-0ae8-4a39-4409-f4f934bfae00/public">
</picture>
  
### Open source background jobs with no timeouts

[Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) | [Website](https://trigger.dev) | [Issues](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev/issues) | [Docs](https://trigger.dev/docs)

[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/triggerdotdev.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40trigger.dev)](https://twitter.com/triggerdotdev)

</div>

# Official TypeScript SDK for Trigger.dev

The Trigger.dev SDK is a TypeScript/JavaScript library that allows you to define and trigger tasks in your project.

## About

Trigger.dev is an open source platform and SDK which allows you to create long-running background jobs. Write normal async code, deploy, and never hit a timeout.

## Getting started

The quickest way to get started is to create an account in our [web app](https://cloud.trigger.dev), create a new project and follow the instructions in the onboarding. Build and deploy your first task in minutes.

## SDK usage

For more information on our SDK, refer to our [docs](https://trigger.dev/docs/introduction).

## Support

If you have any questions, please reach out to us on [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) and we'll be happy to help.

Commit message:

Updated readmes (#2408)
* readme wip

* Added new commands

* Simplified readme

* Added docs links and improved about

* Added nice header and updated links

* Consistent headers

* Copy update

packages/trigger-sdk/README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/a45d1fa2-0ae8-4a39-4409-f4f934bfae00/public">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/3f5ad4c1-c4c8-4277-b622-290e7f37bd00/public">
  <img alt="Trigger.dev logo" src="https://imagedelivery.net/3TbraffuDZ4aEf8KWOmI_w/a45d1fa2-0ae8-4a39-4409-f4f934bfae00/public">
</picture>

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@trigger.dev/sdk.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@trigger.dev/sdk)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@trigger.dev/sdk.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@trigger.dev/sdk)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev?style=social)](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-%230074c1.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Open Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20Source-%E2%9D%A4-red)](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev)

[Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) | [Website](https://trigger.dev) | [Issues](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev/issues) | [Docs](https://trigger.dev/docs) | [Examples](https://trigger.dev/docs/examples)

</div>

# Official TypeScript SDK for Trigger.dev

The Trigger.dev SDK is a TypeScript/JavaScript library that allows you to define and trigger tasks in your projects.

## About Trigger.dev

Trigger.dev is an open source platform for building and deploying fully-managed AI agents and workflows. Write workflows in normal async TypeScript for everything from simple tasks to long-running AI agents, heavy media processing, complex real-time systems and more. Complete with full observability, managed queues, and elastic infrastructure which handles the horizontal scaling.

## Core features

- Task creation and execution
- CLI for development and deployment
- Build system with extensions
- Management API for runs, schedules, and environment variables

## Key Components:

- Tasks: Background jobs written in TypeScript/JavaScript
- CLI: Commands for login, init, dev, deploy
- Build Extensions: Customize builds (Prisma, Python, FFmpeg, etc.)
- Management API: Programmatic control over runs and resources

## Getting started

There are two ways to get started:

1. Create an account in our [web app](https://cloud.trigger.dev), create a new project and follow the instructions in the onboarding. Build and deploy your first task in minutes.
2. [Manual setup](https://trigger.dev/docs/manual-setup) in your existing project.

## SDK documentation

For more information on our SDK, refer to our [docs](https://trigger.dev/docs/introduction).

## Support

If you have any questions, please reach out to us on [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) and we'll be happy to help.
