docs/guides/frameworks/prisma.mdx, before:

---
title: "Prisma setup guide"
sidebarTitle: "Prisma setup guide"
description: "This guide will show you how to set up Prisma with Trigger.dev"
icon: "Triangle"
---

import Prerequisites from "/snippets/framework-prerequisites.mdx";
import CliInitStep from "/snippets/step-cli-init.mdx";
import CliDevStep from "/snippets/step-cli-dev.mdx";
import CliRunTestStep from "/snippets/step-run-test.mdx";
import CliViewRunStep from "/snippets/step-view-run.mdx";
import UsefulNextSteps from "/snippets/useful-next-steps.mdx";

## Overview

This guide will show you how to set up [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) with Trigger.dev, test and view an example task run.

## Prerequisites

- An existing Node.js project with a `package.json` file
- Ensure TypeScript is installed
- A [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database server running locally, or accessible via a connection string
- Prisma ORM [installed and initialized](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/quickstart) in your project
- A `DATABASE_URL` environment variable set in your `.env` file, pointing to your PostgreSQL database (e.g. `postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname`)

## Initial setup (optional)

Follow these steps if you don't already have Trigger.dev set up in your project.

<Steps>
  <CliInitStep />
  <CliDevStep />
  <CliRunTestStep />
  <CliViewRunStep />
</Steps>

## Creating a task using Prisma and deploying it to production

<Steps>
<Step title="Writing the Prisma task">

First, create a new task file in your `trigger` folder.

This is a simple task that will add a new user to the database.

<Note>
  For this task to work correctly, you will need to have a `user` model in your Prisma schema with
  an `id` field, a `name` field, and an `email` field.
</Note>

```ts /trigger/prisma-add-new-user.ts
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";
import { task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

// Initialize Prisma client
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

export const addNewUser = task({
  id: "prisma-add-new-user",
  run: async (payload: { name: string; email: string; id: number }) => {
    const { name, email, id } = payload;

    // This will create a new user in the database
    const user = await prisma.user.create({
      data: {
        name: name,
        email: email,
        id: id,
      },
    });

    return {
      message: `New user added successfully: ${user.id}`,
    };
  },
});
```

</Step>
<Step title="Configuring the build extension">

Next, configure the Prisma [build extension](https://trigger.dev/docs/config/extensions/overview) in the `trigger.config.js` file to include the Prisma client in the build.

This will ensure that the Prisma client is available when the task runs.

For a full list of options available in the Prisma build extension, see the [Prisma build extension documentation](https://trigger.dev/docs/config/extensions/prismaExtension).

```js /trigger.config.js
export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>", // Your project reference
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        version: "5.20.0", // optional, we'll automatically detect the version if not provided
        // update this to the path of your Prisma schema file
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  [Build extensions](/config/extensions/overview) allow you to hook into the build system and
  customize the build process or the resulting bundle and container image (in the case of
  deploying). You can use pre-built extensions or create your own.
</Note>

</Step>

<Step title="Optional: adding Prisma instrumentation">

We use OpenTelemetry to [instrument](https://trigger.dev/docs/config/config-file#instrumentations) our tasks and collect telemetry data.

If you want to automatically log all Prisma queries and mutations, you can use the Prisma instrumentation extension.

```js /trigger.config.js
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { PrismaInstrumentation } from "@prisma/instrumentation";
import { OpenAIInstrumentation } from "@traceloop/instrumentation-openai";

export default defineConfig({
  //..other stuff
  instrumentations: [new PrismaInstrumentation(), new OpenAIInstrumentation()],
});
```

This provides much more detailed information about your tasks with minimal effort.

</Step>
<Step title="Deploying your task">
With the build extension and task configured, you can now deploy your task using the Trigger.dev CLI.

 <CodeGroup>

    ```bash npm
    npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    ```bash pnpm
    pnpm dlx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    ```bash yarn
    yarn dlx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    </CodeGroup>

    </Step>

    <Step title="Adding your DATABASE_URL environment variable to Trigger.dev">

In your Trigger.dev dashboard sidebar click "Environment Variables" <Icon icon="circle-1" iconType="solid" size={20} color="A8FF53" />, and then the "New environment variable" button <Icon icon="circle-2" iconType="solid" size={20} color="A8FF53" />.

You can add values for your local dev environment, staging and prod. in this case we will add the `DATABASE_URL` for the production environment.

![Environment variables
  page](/images/environment-variables-panel.jpg)

    </Step>

    <Step title="Running your task">

    To test this task, go to the 'test' page in the Trigger.dev dashboard and run the task with the following payload:

```json
{
  "name": "<a-name>", // e.g. "John Doe"
  "email": "<a-email>", // e.g. "john@doe.test"
  "id": <a-number> // e.g. 12345
}
```

Congratulations! You should now see a new completed run, and a new user with the credentials you provided should be added to your database.

</Step>

</Steps>

<UsefulNextSteps />

Commit message:

feat(docs): update prismaExtension for new mode functionality in 4.1.1

docs/guides/frameworks/prisma.mdx, after:

---
title: "Prisma setup guide"
sidebarTitle: "Prisma setup guide"
description: "This guide will show you how to set up Prisma with Trigger.dev"
icon: "Triangle"
---

import Prerequisites from "/snippets/framework-prerequisites.mdx";
import CliInitStep from "/snippets/step-cli-init.mdx";
import CliDevStep from "/snippets/step-cli-dev.mdx";
import CliRunTestStep from "/snippets/step-run-test.mdx";
import CliViewRunStep from "/snippets/step-view-run.mdx";
import UsefulNextSteps from "/snippets/useful-next-steps.mdx";

## Overview

This guide will show you how to set up [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) with Trigger.dev, test and view an example task run.

## Prerequisites

- An existing Node.js project with a `package.json` file
- Ensure TypeScript is installed
- A [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database server running locally, or accessible via a connection string
- Prisma ORM [installed and initialized](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/quickstart) in your project
- A `DATABASE_URL` environment variable set in your `.env` file, pointing to your PostgreSQL database (e.g. `postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/dbname`)

## Initial setup (optional)

Follow these steps if you don't already have Trigger.dev set up in your project.

<Steps>
  <CliInitStep />
  <CliDevStep />
  <CliRunTestStep />
  <CliViewRunStep />
</Steps>

## Creating a task using Prisma and deploying it to production

<Steps>
<Step title="Writing the Prisma task">

First, create a new task file in your `trigger` folder.

This is a simple task that will add a new user to the database.

<Note>
  For this task to work correctly, you will need to have a `user` model in your Prisma schema with
  an `id` field, a `name` field, and an `email` field.
</Note>

```ts /trigger/prisma-add-new-user.ts
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";
import { task } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

// Initialize Prisma client
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

export const addNewUser = task({
  id: "prisma-add-new-user",
  run: async (payload: { name: string; email: string; id: number }) => {
    const { name, email, id } = payload;

    // This will create a new user in the database
    const user = await prisma.user.create({
      data: {
        name: name,
        email: email,
        id: id,
      },
    });

    return {
      message: `New user added successfully: ${user.id}`,
    };
  },
});
```

</Step>
<Step title="Configuring the build extension">

Next, configure the Prisma [build extension](https://trigger.dev/docs/config/extensions/overview) in the `trigger.config.js` file to include the Prisma client in the build.

This will ensure that the Prisma client is available when the task runs.

```js /trigger.config.js
export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>", // Your project reference
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        mode: "legacy", // required
        version: "5.20.0", // optional, we'll automatically detect the version if not provided
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma", // update this to the path of your Prisma schema file
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

The `prismaExtension` requires a `mode` parameter. For standard Prisma setups, use `"legacy"`
mode. See the [Prisma extension documentation](/config/extensions/prismaExtension) for other modes
and full configuration options.

<Note>
  [Build extensions](/config/extensions/overview) allow you to hook into the build system and
  customize the build process or the resulting bundle and container image (in the case of
  deploying). You can use pre-built extensions or create your own.
</Note>

</Step>

<Step title="Optional: adding Prisma instrumentation">

We use OpenTelemetry to [instrument](https://trigger.dev/docs/config/config-file#instrumentations) our tasks and collect telemetry data.

If you want to automatically log all Prisma queries and mutations, you can use the Prisma instrumentation extension.

```js /trigger.config.js
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { PrismaInstrumentation } from "@prisma/instrumentation";
import { OpenAIInstrumentation } from "@traceloop/instrumentation-openai";

export default defineConfig({
  //..other stuff
  instrumentations: [new PrismaInstrumentation(), new OpenAIInstrumentation()],
});
```

This provides much more detailed information about your tasks with minimal effort.

</Step>
<Step title="Deploying your task">
With the build extension and task configured, you can now deploy your task using the Trigger.dev CLI.

 <CodeGroup>

    ```bash npm
    npx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    ```bash pnpm
    pnpm dlx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    ```bash yarn
    yarn dlx trigger.dev@latest deploy
    ```

    </CodeGroup>

    </Step>

    <Step title="Adding your DATABASE_URL environment variable to Trigger.dev">

In your Trigger.dev dashboard sidebar click "Environment Variables" <Icon icon="circle-1" iconType="solid" size={20} color="A8FF53" />, and then the "New environment variable" button <Icon icon="circle-2" iconType="solid" size={20} color="A8FF53" />.

You can add values for your local dev environment, staging and prod. in this case we will add the `DATABASE_URL` for the production environment.

![Environment variables
  page](/images/environment-variables-panel.jpg)

    </Step>

    <Step title="Running your task">

    To test this task, go to the 'test' page in the Trigger.dev dashboard and run the task with the following payload:

```json
{
  "name": "<a-name>", // e.g. "John Doe"
  "email": "<a-email>", // e.g. "john@doe.test"
  "id": <a-number> // e.g. 12345
}
```

Congratulations! You should now see a new completed run, and a new user with the credentials you provided should be added to your database.

</Step>

</Steps>

<UsefulNextSteps />
