docs/guides/frameworks/supabase-authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: "Authenticating Supabase tasks: JWTs and service roles"
sidebarTitle: "Supabase authentication"
description: "Learn how to authenticate Supabase tasks using JWTs for Row Level Security (RLS) or service role keys for admin access."
---

import SupabaseDocsCards from "/snippets/supabase-docs-cards.mdx";

There are two ways to authenticate your Supabase client in Trigger.dev tasks:

### 1. Using JWT Authentication (Recommended for User-Specific Operations)

A JWT (JSON Web Token) is a string-formatted data container that typically stores user identity and permissions data. Row Level Security policies are based on the information present in JWTs. Supabase JWT docs can be found [here](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/jwts).

To use JWTs with Supabase, you'll need to add the `SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET` environment variable in your project. This secret is used to sign the JWTs. This can be found in your Supabase project settings under `Data API`.

This example code shows how to create a JWT token for a user and initialize a Supabase client with that token for authentication, allowing the task to perform database operations as that specific user. You can adapt this code to fit your own use case.

```ts

// The rest of your task code
async run(payload: { user_id: string }) {
    const { user_id } = payload;

    // Optional error handling
    const jwtSecret = process.env.SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET;
    if (!jwtSecret) {
      throw new Error(
        "SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET is not defined in environment variables"
      );
    }

    // Create a JWT token for the user that expires in 1 hour
    const token = jwt.sign({ sub: user_id }, jwtSecret, { expiresIn: "1h" });

    // Initialize the Supabase client with the JWT token
    const supabase = createClient(
      // These details can be found in your Supabase project settings under `Data API`
      process.env.SUPABASE_URL as string,
      process.env.SUPABASE_ANON_KEY as string,
      {
        global: {
          headers: {
            Authorization: `Bearer ${token}`,
          },
        },
      }
    );
// The rest of your task code
```

Using JWTs to authenticate Supabase operations is more secure than using service role keys because it respects Row Level Security policies, maintains user-specific audit trails, and follows the principle of least privileged access.

### 2. Using Service Role Key (For Admin-Level Access)

<Warning>
  The service role key has unlimited access and bypasses all security checks. Only use it when you
  need admin-level privileges, and never expose it client-side.
</Warning>

This example code creates a Supabase client with admin-level privileges using a service role key, bypassing all Row Level Security policies to allow unrestricted database access.

```ts
// Create a single Supabase client for interacting with your database
// 'Database' supplies the type definitions to supabase-js
const supabase = createClient<Database>(
  // These details can be found in your Supabase project settings under `API`
  process.env.SUPABASE_PROJECT_URL as string, // e.g. https://abc123.supabase.co - replace 'abc123' with your project ID
  process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY as string // Your service role secret key
);

// Your task
```

<SupabaseDocsCards />

Commit message:

Added Supabase + Prisma note to supabase auth

docs/guides/frameworks/supabase-authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: "Authenticating Supabase tasks: JWTs and service roles"
sidebarTitle: "Supabase authentication"
description: "Learn how to authenticate Supabase tasks using JWTs for Row Level Security (RLS) or service role keys for admin access."
---

import SupabaseDocsCards from "/snippets/supabase-docs-cards.mdx";

There are two ways to authenticate your Supabase client in Trigger.dev tasks:

### 1. Using JWT Authentication (Recommended for User-Specific Operations)

A JWT (JSON Web Token) is a string-formatted data container that typically stores user identity and permissions data. Row Level Security policies are based on the information present in JWTs. Supabase JWT docs can be found [here](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/jwts).

To use JWTs with Supabase, you'll need to add the `SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET` environment variable in your project. This secret is used to sign the JWTs. This can be found in your Supabase project settings under `Data API`.

This example code shows how to create a JWT token for a user and initialize a Supabase client with that token for authentication, allowing the task to perform database operations as that specific user. You can adapt this code to fit your own use case.

```ts

// The rest of your task code
async run(payload: { user_id: string }) {
    const { user_id } = payload;

    // Optional error handling
    const jwtSecret = process.env.SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET;
    if (!jwtSecret) {
      throw new Error(
        "SUPABASE_JWT_SECRET is not defined in environment variables"
      );
    }

    // Create a JWT token for the user that expires in 1 hour
    const token = jwt.sign({ sub: user_id }, jwtSecret, { expiresIn: "1h" });

    // Initialize the Supabase client with the JWT token
    const supabase = createClient(
      // These details can be found in your Supabase project settings under `Data API`
      process.env.SUPABASE_URL as string,
      process.env.SUPABASE_ANON_KEY as string,
      {
        global: {
          headers: {
            Authorization: `Bearer ${token}`,
          },
        },
      }
    );
// The rest of your task code
```

Using JWTs to authenticate Supabase operations is more secure than using service role keys because it respects Row Level Security policies, maintains user-specific audit trails, and follows the principle of least privileged access.

### 2. Using Service Role Key (For Admin-Level Access)

<Warning>
  The service role key has unlimited access and bypasses all security checks. Only use it when you
  need admin-level privileges, and never expose it client-side.
</Warning>

This example code creates a Supabase client with admin-level privileges using a service role key, bypassing all Row Level Security policies to allow unrestricted database access.

```ts
// Create a single Supabase client for interacting with your database
// 'Database' supplies the type definitions to supabase-js
const supabase = createClient<Database>(
  // These details can be found in your Supabase project settings under `API`
  process.env.SUPABASE_PROJECT_URL as string, // e.g. https://abc123.supabase.co - replace 'abc123' with your project ID
  process.env.SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY as string // Your service role secret key
);

// Your task
```

## Using Prisma with Supabase PgBouncer

When using Prisma with Supabase's PgBouncer connection pooler, you need separate pooled and direct connection URLs to avoid prepared statement conflicts.

```ts
// In trigger.config.ts
prismaExtension({
  schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
  directUrlEnvVarName: "DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED",
}),
```

```bash
# Environment variables
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://postgres.creds@aws-0-region.pooler.supabase.com:6543/postgres?pgbouncer=true&connection_limit=1
DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED=postgresql://postgres.creds@aws-0-region.pooler.supabase.com:5432/postgres
```

<Note>
  The pooled connection (port 6543) is used for regular queries, while the direct connection (port
  5432) is used for migrations and schema operations that don't work with connection pooling.
</Note>

<SupabaseDocsCards />
