docs/guides/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Frameworks, guides and examples"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "A growing list of guides and examples to get the most out of Trigger.dev."
mode: "center"
---

## Frameworks

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Bun" img="/images/logo-bun.png" href="/guides/frameworks/bun" />
  <Card title="Next.js" img="/images/logo-nextjs.png" href="/guides/frameworks/nextjs" />
  <Card title="Node.js" img="/images/logo-nodejs.png" href="/guides/frameworks/nodejs" />
  <Card title="Remix" img="/images/logo-remix.png" href="/guides/frameworks/remix" />
  <Card title="SvelteKit" img="/images/logo-svelte.png" href="/guides/community/sveltekit" />
</CardGroup>

## Guides

Get set up fast using our detailed walk-through guides.

| Guide                                                                                      | Description                                                          |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [AI Agent: Content moderation](/guides/ai-agents/respond-and-check-content)                | Parallel check content while responding to customers                 |
| [AI Agent: Generate and translate copy](/guides/ai-agents/generate-translate-copy)         | Chain prompts to generate and translate content                      |
| [AI Agent: News verification](/guides/ai-agents/verify-news-article)                       | Orchestrate fact checking of news articles                           |
| [AI Agent: Route questions](/guides/ai-agents/route-question)                              | Route questions to different models based on complexity              |
| [AI Agent: Translation refinement](/guides/ai-agents/translate-and-refine)                 | Evaluate and refine translations with feedback                       |
| [Cursor rules](/guides/cursor-rules)                                                       | Use Cursor rules to help write Trigger.dev tasks                     |
| [Prisma](/guides/frameworks/prisma)                                                        | How to setup Prisma with Trigger.dev                                 |
| [Python image processing](/guides/python/python-image-processing)                          | Use Python and Pillow to process images                              |
| [Python PDF form extractor](/guides/python/python-pdf-form-extractor)                      | Use Python, PyMuPDF and Trigger.dev to extract data from a PDF form  |
| [Python web crawler](/guides/python/python-crawl4ai)                                       | Use Python, Crawl4AI and Playwright to create a headless web crawler |
| [Sequin database triggers](/guides/frameworks/sequin)                                      | Trigger tasks from database changes using Sequin                     |
| [Stripe webhooks](/guides/examples/stripe-webhook)                                         | Trigger tasks from incoming Stripe webhook events                    |
| [Supabase database webhooks](/guides/frameworks/supabase-edge-functions-database-webhooks) | Trigger tasks using Supabase database webhooks                       |
| [Supabase edge function hello world](/guides/frameworks/supabase-edge-functions-basic)     | Trigger tasks from Supabase edge function                            |
| [Using webhooks in Next.js](/guides/frameworks/nextjs-webhooks)                            | Trigger tasks from a webhook in Next.js                              |
| [Using webhooks in Remix](/guides/frameworks/remix-webhooks)                               | Trigger tasks from a webhook in Remix                                |

## Example projects

Example projects are full projects with example repos you can fork and use. These are a great way of learning how to encorporate Trigger.dev into your project.

| Example project                                                                         | Description                                                                                                                            | Framework | GitHub                                                                                                        |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Batch LLM Evaluator](/guides/example-projects/batch-llm-evaluator)                     | Evaluate multiple LLM models and stream the results to the frontend.                                                                   | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/batch-llm-evaluator)                      |
| [Claude thinking chatbot](/guides/example-projects/claude-thinking-chatbot)             | Use Vercel's AI SDK and Anthropic's Claude 3.7 model to create a thinking chatbot.                                                     | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/claude-thinking-chatbot)                  |
| [Human-in-the-loop workflow](/guides/example-projects/human-in-the-loop-workflow)       | Create audio summaries of newspaper articles using a human-in-the-loop workflow built with ReactFlow and Trigger.dev waitpoint tokens. | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/article-summary-workflow)                 |
| [Python web crawler](/guides/python/python-crawl4ai)                                    | Use Python, Crawl4AI and Playwright to create a headless web crawler with Trigger.dev.                                                 | —         | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/python-crawl4ai)                          |
| [Realtime CSV Importer](/guides/example-projects/realtime-csv-importer)                 | Upload a CSV file and see the progress of the task streamed to the frontend.                                                           | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/realtime-csv-importer)                    |
| [Realtime Fal.ai image generation](/guides/example-projects/realtime-fal-ai)            | Generate an image from a prompt using Fal.ai and show the progress of the task on the frontend using Realtime.                         | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/realtime-fal-ai-image-generation)         |
| [Turborepo monorepo with Prisma](/guides/example-projects/turborepo-monorepo-prisma)    | Use Prisma in a Turborepo monorepo with Trigger.dev.                                                                                   | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/monorepos/turborepo-prisma-tasks-package) |
| [Vercel AI SDK image generator](/guides/example-projects/vercel-ai-sdk-image-generator) | Use the Vercel AI SDK to generate images from a prompt.                                                                                | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/vercel-ai-sdk-image-generator)            |

## Example tasks

Task code you can copy and paste to use in your project. They can all be extended and customized to fit your needs.

| Example task                                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DALL·E 3 image generation](/guides/examples/dall-e3-generate-image)          | Use OpenAI's GPT-4o and DALL·E 3 to generate an image and text.                                                                                      |
| [Deepgram audio transcription](/guides/examples/deepgram-transcribe-audio)    | Transcribe audio using Deepgram's speech recognition API.                                                                                            |
| [Fal.ai image to cartoon](/guides/examples/fal-ai-image-to-cartoon)           | Convert an image to a cartoon using Fal.ai, and upload the result to Cloudflare R2.                                                                  |
| [Fal.ai with Realtime](/guides/examples/fal-ai-realtime)                      | Generate an image from a prompt using Fal.ai and show the progress of the task on the frontend using Realtime.                                       |
| [FFmpeg video processing](/guides/examples/ffmpeg-video-processing)           | Use FFmpeg to process a video in various ways and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                          |
| [Firecrawl URL crawl](/guides/examples/firecrawl-url-crawl)                   | Learn how to use Firecrawl to crawl a URL and return LLM-ready markdown.                                                                             |
| [LibreOffice PDF conversion](/guides/examples/libreoffice-pdf-conversion)     | Convert a document to PDF using LibreOffice.                                                                                                         |
| [OpenAI with retrying](/guides/examples/open-ai-with-retrying)                | Create a reusable OpenAI task with custom retry options.                                                                                             |
| [PDF to image](/guides/examples/pdf-to-image)                                 | Use `MuPDF` to turn a PDF into images and save them to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                |
| [Puppeteer](/guides/examples/puppeteer)                                       | Use Puppeteer to generate a PDF or scrape a webpage.                                                                                                 |
| [React email](/guides/examples/react-email)                                   | Send an email using React Email.                                                                                                                     |
| [React to PDF](/guides/examples/react-pdf)                                    | Use `react-pdf` to generate a PDF and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                      |
| [Resend email sequence](/guides/examples/resend-email-sequence)               | Send a sequence of emails over several days using Resend with Trigger.dev.                                                                           |
| [Satori](/guides/examples/satori)                                             | Generate OG images using React Satori.                                                                                                               |
| [Scrape Hacker News](/guides/examples/scrape-hacker-news)                     | Scrape Hacker News using BrowserBase and Puppeteer, summarize the articles with ChatGPT and send an email of the summary every weekday using Resend. |
| [Sentry error tracking](/guides/examples/sentry-error-tracking)               | Automatically send errors to Sentry from your tasks.                                                                                                 |
| [Sharp image processing](/guides/examples/sharp-image-processing)             | Use Sharp to process an image and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                          |
| [Supabase database operations](/guides/examples/supabase-database-operations) | Run basic CRUD operations on a table in a Supabase database using Trigger.dev.                                                                       |
| [Supabase Storage upload](/guides/examples/supabase-storage-upload)           | Download a video from a URL and upload it to Supabase Storage using S3.                                                                              |
| [Vercel AI SDK](/guides/examples/vercel-ai-sdk)                               | Use Vercel AI SDK to generate text using OpenAI.                                                                                                     |
| [Vercel sync environment variables](/guides/examples/vercel-sync-env-vars)    | Automatically sync environment variables from your Vercel projects to Trigger.dev.                                                                   |

<Note>
  If you would like to see a guide for your framework, or an example task for your use case, please
  request it in our [Discord server](https://trigger.dev/discord) and we'll add it to the list.
</Note>

Commit message:

Added Python MarkItDown docs (#1977)
* Added Python MarkItDown docs

* Simplified the task

* Update example to use fetch and improved sidebar titles

* Fixed link

docs/guides/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "Frameworks, guides and examples"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "A growing list of guides and examples to get the most out of Trigger.dev."
mode: "center"
---

## Frameworks

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Bun" img="/images/logo-bun.png" href="/guides/frameworks/bun" />
  <Card title="Next.js" img="/images/logo-nextjs.png" href="/guides/frameworks/nextjs" />
  <Card title="Node.js" img="/images/logo-nodejs.png" href="/guides/frameworks/nodejs" />
  <Card title="Remix" img="/images/logo-remix.png" href="/guides/frameworks/remix" />
  <Card title="SvelteKit" img="/images/logo-svelte.png" href="/guides/community/sveltekit" />
</CardGroup>

## Guides

Get set up fast using our detailed walk-through guides.

| Guide                                                                                      | Description                                                          |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [AI Agent: Content moderation](/guides/ai-agents/respond-and-check-content)                | Parallel check content while responding to customers                 |
| [AI Agent: Generate and translate copy](/guides/ai-agents/generate-translate-copy)         | Chain prompts to generate and translate content                      |
| [AI Agent: News verification](/guides/ai-agents/verify-news-article)                       | Orchestrate fact checking of news articles                           |
| [AI Agent: Route questions](/guides/ai-agents/route-question)                              | Route questions to different models based on complexity              |
| [AI Agent: Translation refinement](/guides/ai-agents/translate-and-refine)                 | Evaluate and refine translations with feedback                       |
| [Cursor rules](/guides/cursor-rules)                                                       | Use Cursor rules to help write Trigger.dev tasks                     |
| [Prisma](/guides/frameworks/prisma)                                                        | How to setup Prisma with Trigger.dev                                 |
| [Python image processing](/guides/python/python-image-processing)                          | Use Python and Pillow to process images                              |
| [Python document to markdown](/guides/python/python-doc-to-markdown)                       | Use Python and MarkItDown to convert documents to markdown           |
| [Python PDF form extractor](/guides/python/python-pdf-form-extractor)                      | Use Python, PyMuPDF and Trigger.dev to extract data from a PDF form  |
| [Python web crawler](/guides/python/python-crawl4ai)                                       | Use Python, Crawl4AI and Playwright to create a headless web crawler |
| [Sequin database triggers](/guides/frameworks/sequin)                                      | Trigger tasks from database changes using Sequin                     |
| [Stripe webhooks](/guides/examples/stripe-webhook)                                         | Trigger tasks from incoming Stripe webhook events                    |
| [Supabase database webhooks](/guides/frameworks/supabase-edge-functions-database-webhooks) | Trigger tasks using Supabase database webhooks                       |
| [Supabase edge function hello world](/guides/frameworks/supabase-edge-functions-basic)     | Trigger tasks from Supabase edge function                            |
| [Using webhooks in Next.js](/guides/frameworks/nextjs-webhooks)                            | Trigger tasks from a webhook in Next.js                              |
| [Using webhooks in Remix](/guides/frameworks/remix-webhooks)                               | Trigger tasks from a webhook in Remix                                |

## Example projects

Example projects are full projects with example repos you can fork and use. These are a great way of learning how to encorporate Trigger.dev into your project.

| Example project                                                                         | Description                                                                                                                            | Framework | GitHub                                                                                                        |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Batch LLM Evaluator](/guides/example-projects/batch-llm-evaluator)                     | Evaluate multiple LLM models and stream the results to the frontend.                                                                   | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/batch-llm-evaluator)                      |
| [Claude thinking chatbot](/guides/example-projects/claude-thinking-chatbot)             | Use Vercel's AI SDK and Anthropic's Claude 3.7 model to create a thinking chatbot.                                                     | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/claude-thinking-chatbot)                  |
| [Human-in-the-loop workflow](/guides/example-projects/human-in-the-loop-workflow)       | Create audio summaries of newspaper articles using a human-in-the-loop workflow built with ReactFlow and Trigger.dev waitpoint tokens. | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/article-summary-workflow)                 |
| [Python web crawler](/guides/python/python-crawl4ai)                                    | Use Python, Crawl4AI and Playwright to create a headless web crawler with Trigger.dev.                                                 | —         | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/python-crawl4ai)                          |
| [Realtime CSV Importer](/guides/example-projects/realtime-csv-importer)                 | Upload a CSV file and see the progress of the task streamed to the frontend.                                                           | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/realtime-csv-importer)                    |
| [Realtime Fal.ai image generation](/guides/example-projects/realtime-fal-ai)            | Generate an image from a prompt using Fal.ai and show the progress of the task on the frontend using Realtime.                         | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/realtime-fal-ai-image-generation)         |
| [Turborepo monorepo with Prisma](/guides/example-projects/turborepo-monorepo-prisma)    | Use Prisma in a Turborepo monorepo with Trigger.dev.                                                                                   | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/monorepos/turborepo-prisma-tasks-package) |
| [Vercel AI SDK image generator](/guides/example-projects/vercel-ai-sdk-image-generator) | Use the Vercel AI SDK to generate images from a prompt.                                                                                | Next.js   | [View the repo](https://github.com/triggerdotdev/examples/tree/main/vercel-ai-sdk-image-generator)            |

## Example tasks

Task code you can copy and paste to use in your project. They can all be extended and customized to fit your needs.

| Example task                                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DALL·E 3 image generation](/guides/examples/dall-e3-generate-image)          | Use OpenAI's GPT-4o and DALL·E 3 to generate an image and text.                                                                                      |
| [Deepgram audio transcription](/guides/examples/deepgram-transcribe-audio)    | Transcribe audio using Deepgram's speech recognition API.                                                                                            |
| [Fal.ai image to cartoon](/guides/examples/fal-ai-image-to-cartoon)           | Convert an image to a cartoon using Fal.ai, and upload the result to Cloudflare R2.                                                                  |
| [Fal.ai with Realtime](/guides/examples/fal-ai-realtime)                      | Generate an image from a prompt using Fal.ai and show the progress of the task on the frontend using Realtime.                                       |
| [FFmpeg video processing](/guides/examples/ffmpeg-video-processing)           | Use FFmpeg to process a video in various ways and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                          |
| [Firecrawl URL crawl](/guides/examples/firecrawl-url-crawl)                   | Learn how to use Firecrawl to crawl a URL and return LLM-ready markdown.                                                                             |
| [LibreOffice PDF conversion](/guides/examples/libreoffice-pdf-conversion)     | Convert a document to PDF using LibreOffice.                                                                                                         |
| [OpenAI with retrying](/guides/examples/open-ai-with-retrying)                | Create a reusable OpenAI task with custom retry options.                                                                                             |
| [PDF to image](/guides/examples/pdf-to-image)                                 | Use `MuPDF` to turn a PDF into images and save them to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                |
| [Puppeteer](/guides/examples/puppeteer)                                       | Use Puppeteer to generate a PDF or scrape a webpage.                                                                                                 |
| [React email](/guides/examples/react-email)                                   | Send an email using React Email.                                                                                                                     |
| [React to PDF](/guides/examples/react-pdf)                                    | Use `react-pdf` to generate a PDF and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                      |
| [Resend email sequence](/guides/examples/resend-email-sequence)               | Send a sequence of emails over several days using Resend with Trigger.dev.                                                                           |
| [Satori](/guides/examples/satori)                                             | Generate OG images using React Satori.                                                                                                               |
| [Scrape Hacker News](/guides/examples/scrape-hacker-news)                     | Scrape Hacker News using BrowserBase and Puppeteer, summarize the articles with ChatGPT and send an email of the summary every weekday using Resend. |
| [Sentry error tracking](/guides/examples/sentry-error-tracking)               | Automatically send errors to Sentry from your tasks.                                                                                                 |
| [Sharp image processing](/guides/examples/sharp-image-processing)             | Use Sharp to process an image and save it to Cloudflare R2.                                                                                          |
| [Supabase database operations](/guides/examples/supabase-database-operations) | Run basic CRUD operations on a table in a Supabase database using Trigger.dev.                                                                       |
| [Supabase Storage upload](/guides/examples/supabase-storage-upload)           | Download a video from a URL and upload it to Supabase Storage using S3.                                                                              |
| [Vercel AI SDK](/guides/examples/vercel-ai-sdk)                               | Use Vercel AI SDK to generate text using OpenAI.                                                                                                     |
| [Vercel sync environment variables](/guides/examples/vercel-sync-env-vars)    | Automatically sync environment variables from your Vercel projects to Trigger.dev.                                                                   |

<Note>
  If you would like to see a guide for your framework, or an example task for your use case, please
  request it in our [Discord server](https://trigger.dev/discord) and we'll add it to the list.
</Note>
