docs/config/extensions/prismaExtension.mdx, before:

---
title: "Prisma"
sidebarTitle: "prismaExtension"
description: "Use the prismaExtension build extension to use Prisma with Trigger.dev"
---

If you are using Prisma, you should use the prisma build extension.

- Automatically handles copying Prisma files to the build directory
- Generates the Prisma client during the deploy process
- Optionally will migrate the database during the deploy process
- Support for TypedSQL and multiple schema files
- You can use `prismaSchemaFolder` to specify just the directory containing your schema file, instead of the full path
- You can add the extension twice if you have multiple separate schemas in the same project (example below)

You can use it for a simple Prisma setup like this:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        version: "5.19.0", // optional, we'll automatically detect the version if not provided
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  This does not have any effect when running the `dev` command, only when running the `deploy`
  command.
</Note>

### Migrations

If you want to also run migrations during the build process, you can pass in the `migrate` option:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        migrate: true,
        directUrlEnvVarName: "DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED", // optional - the name of the environment variable that contains the direct database URL if you are using a direct database URL
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### clientGenerator

If you have multiple `generator` statements defined in your schema file, you can pass in the `clientGenerator` option to specify the `prisma-client-js` generator, which will prevent other generators from being generated. Some examples where you may need to do this include when using the `prisma-kysely` or `prisma-json-types-generator` generators.

<CodeGroup>

```prisma schema.prisma
datasource db {
  provider  = "postgresql"
  url       = env("DATABASE_URL")
  directUrl = env("DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED")
}

// We only want to generate the prisma-client-js generator
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
}

generator kysely {
  provider     = "prisma-kysely"
  output       = "../../src/kysely"
  enumFileName = "enums.ts"
  fileName     = "types.ts"
}

generator json {
  provider = "prisma-json-types-generator"
}
```

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        clientGenerator: "client",
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

</CodeGroup>

### TypedSQL

If you are using [TypedSQL](https://www.prisma.io/typedsql), you'll need to enable it via the `typedSql` option:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        typedSql: true,
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  The `prismaExtension` will inject the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable into the build process. Learn more about setting environment variables for deploying in our [Environment Variables](/deploy-environment-variables) guide.

These environment variables are only used during the build process and are not embedded in the final container image.

</Note>

### Multiple schemas

If you have multiple separate schemas in the same project you can add the extension multiple times:

```ts
prismaExtension({
  schema: 'prisma/schema/main.prisma',
  version: '6.2.0',
  migrate: false,
}),
prismaExtension({
  schema: 'prisma/schema/secondary.prisma',
  version: '6.2.0',
  migrate: false,
}),
```

Commit message:

Various docs improvements (#2456)
* Added MCP to the intro

* Added human-in-the-loop and new build extensions

* Waitpoint notes

* Moved openai guardrails example to Python

* Added a connection limit note

* Added Supabase + Prisma note to supabase auth

* Updates based on what the rabbit said

* Moved the supavisor section to the prismaExtension docs

docs/config/extensions/prismaExtension.mdx, after:

---
title: "Prisma"
sidebarTitle: "prismaExtension"
description: "Use the prismaExtension build extension to use Prisma with Trigger.dev"
---

If you are using Prisma, you should use the prisma build extension.

- Automatically handles copying Prisma files to the build directory
- Generates the Prisma client during the deploy process
- Optionally will migrate the database during the deploy process
- Support for TypedSQL and multiple schema files
- You can use `prismaSchemaFolder` to specify just the directory containing your schema file, instead of the full path
- You can add the extension twice if you have multiple separate schemas in the same project (example below)

You can use it for a simple Prisma setup like this:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        version: "5.19.0", // optional, we'll automatically detect the version if not provided
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  This does not have any effect when running the `dev` command, only when running the `deploy`
  command.
</Note>

### Migrations

If you want to also run migrations during the build process, you can pass in the `migrate` option:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        migrate: true,
        directUrlEnvVarName: "DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED", // optional - the name of the environment variable that contains the direct database URL if you are using a direct database URL
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### clientGenerator

If you have multiple `generator` statements defined in your schema file, you can pass in the `clientGenerator` option to specify the `prisma-client-js` generator, which will prevent other generators from being generated. Some examples where you may need to do this include when using the `prisma-kysely` or `prisma-json-types-generator` generators.

<CodeGroup>

```prisma schema.prisma
datasource db {
  provider  = "postgresql"
  url       = env("DATABASE_URL")
  directUrl = env("DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED")
}

// We only want to generate the prisma-client-js generator
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
}

generator kysely {
  provider     = "prisma-kysely"
  output       = "../../src/kysely"
  enumFileName = "enums.ts"
  fileName     = "types.ts"
}

generator json {
  provider = "prisma-json-types-generator"
}
```

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { prismaExtension } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/prisma";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        clientGenerator: "client",
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

</CodeGroup>

### TypedSQL

If you are using [TypedSQL](https://www.prisma.io/typedsql), you'll need to enable it via the `typedSql` option:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      prismaExtension({
        schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
        typedSql: true,
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

<Note>
  The `prismaExtension` will inject the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable into the build process. Learn more about setting environment variables for deploying in our [Environment Variables](/deploy-environment-variables) guide.

These environment variables are only used during the build process and are not embedded in the final container image.

If you're experiencing database connection issues during deployment, you may need to add `?connection_limit=1` to your `DATABASE_URL` to limit the number of concurrent connections during the build process.

</Note>

### Using with Supabase Supavisor

When using Prisma with Supabase's Supavisor pooler, use a pooled URL for Prisma Client and a session/direct URL for schema operations to avoid prepared statement conflicts. As of Feb 28, 2025, port 6543 runs Transaction Mode only; use port 5432 for Session Mode.

```ts
prismaExtension({
  schema: "prisma/schema.prisma",
  directUrlEnvVarName: "DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED",
}),
```

```bash
# Environment variables
# Pooled (Transaction Mode, port 6543)
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://postgres.[PROJECT_REF]:<PASSWORD>@aws-0-[REGION].pooler.supabase.com:6543/postgres?pgbouncer=true&connection_limit=1"
# Session/Direct (used by Prisma schema engine, port 5432)
DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED="postgresql://postgres.[PROJECT_REF]:<PASSWORD>@aws-0-[REGION].pooler.supabase.com:5432/postgres"
```

<Note>
  Use the pooled connection (port 6543, Transaction Mode) for regular Prisma Client queries. Use the
  session/direct connection (port 5432, Session Mode) for migrations and other schema operations.
</Note>

### Multiple schemas

If you have multiple separate schemas in the same project you can add the extension multiple times:

```ts
prismaExtension({
  schema: 'prisma/schema/main.prisma',
  version: '6.2.0',
  migrate: false,
}),
prismaExtension({
  schema: 'prisma/schema/secondary.prisma',
  version: '6.2.0',
  migrate: false,
}),
```
