docs/config/extensions/syncEnvVars.mdx, before:

---
title: "Sync env vars"
sidebarTitle: "syncEnvVars"
description: "Use the syncEnvVars build extension to automatically sync environment variables to Trigger.dev"
---

The `syncEnvVars` build extension will sync env vars from another service into Trigger.dev before the deployment starts. This is useful if you are using a secret store service like Infisical or AWS Secrets Manager to store your secrets.

`syncEnvVars` takes an async callback function, and any env vars returned from the callback will be synced to Trigger.dev.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncEnvVars(async (ctx) => {
        return [
          { name: "SECRET_KEY", value: "secret-value" },
          { name: "ANOTHER_SECRET", value: "another-secret-value" },
        ];
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

The callback is passed a context object with the following properties:

- `environment`: The environment name that the task is being deployed to (e.g. `production`, `staging`, etc.)
- `projectRef`: The project ref of the Trigger.dev project
- `env`: The environment variables that are currently set in the Trigger.dev project

### Example: Sync env vars from Infisical

In this example we're using env vars from [Infisical](https://infisical.com).

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";
import { InfisicalSDK } from "@infisical/sdk";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncEnvVars(async (ctx) => {
        const client = new InfisicalSDK();

        await client.auth().universalAuth.login({
          clientId: process.env.INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID!,
          clientSecret: process.env.INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        });

        const { secrets } = await client.secrets().listSecrets({
          environment: ctx.environment,
          projectId: process.env.INFISICAL_PROJECT_ID!,
        });

        return secrets.map((secret) => ({
          name: secret.secretKey,
          value: secret.secretValue,
        }));
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### syncVercelEnvVars

The `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension syncs environment variables from your Vercel project to Trigger.dev.

<Note>
  You need to set the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass
  in the token and project ID as arguments to the `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension. If you're
  working with a team project, you'll also need to set `VERCEL_TEAM_ID`, which can be found in your
  team settings. You can find / generate the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in your Vercel
  [dashboard](https://vercel.com/account/settings/tokens). Make sure the scope of the token covers
  the project with the environment variables you want to sync.
</Note>

<Note>
  When running the build from a Vercel build environment (e.g., during a Vercel deployment), the
  environment variable values will be read from `process.env` instead of fetching them from the
  Vercel API. This is determined by checking if the `VERCEL` environment variable is present. The
  API is still used to determine which environment variables are configured for your project, but
  the actual values come from the local environment.
</Note>

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // This will automatically use the VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN and VERCEL_PROJECT_ID environment variables
    extensions: [syncVercelEnvVars()],
  },
});
```

Or you can pass in the token and project ID as arguments:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncVercelEnvVars({
        projectId: "your-vercel-project-id",
        vercelAccessToken: "your-vercel-access-token",
        vercelTeamId: "your-vercel-team-id", // optional
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### syncNeonEnvVars

The `syncNeonEnvVars` build extension syncs environment variables from your Neon database project to Trigger.dev. It automatically detects branches and builds the appropriate database connection strings for your environment.

<Note>
  You need to set the `NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `NEON_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass them
  as arguments to the `syncNeonEnvVars` build extension. You can generate a `NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN` in
  your Neon [dashboard](https://console.neon.tech/app/settings/api-keys).
</Note>

<Note>
  When running the build from a Vercel environment (determined by checking if the `VERCEL`
  environment variable is present), this extension is skipped entirely. This is because Neon's
  Vercel integration already handles environment variable synchronization in Vercel environments.
</Note>

<Note>
  This extension is skipped for `prod` environments. It is designed to sync branch-specific
  database connections for preview/staging/dev environments.
</Note>

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncNeonEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // This will automatically use the NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN and NEON_PROJECT_ID environment variables
    extensions: [syncNeonEnvVars()],
  },
});
```

Or you can pass in the token and project ID as arguments:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncNeonEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncNeonEnvVars({
        projectId: "your-neon-project-id",
        neonAccessToken: "your-neon-access-token",
        branch: "your-branch-name", // optional, defaults to ctx.branch
        databaseName: "your-database-name", // optional, defaults to the first database
        roleName: "your-role-name", // optional, defaults to the database owner
        envVarPrefix: "MY_PREFIX_", // optional, prefix for all synced env vars
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

The extension syncs the following environment variables (with optional prefix):

- `DATABASE_URL` - Pooled connection string
- `DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED` - Direct connection string
- `POSTGRES_URL`, `POSTGRES_URL_NO_SSL`, `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING`
- `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` - Connection string optimized for Prisma
- `POSTGRES_HOST`, `POSTGRES_USER`, `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`, `POSTGRES_DATABASE`
- `PGHOST`, `PGHOST_UNPOOLED`, `PGUSER`, `PGPASSWORD`, `PGDATABASE`

Commit message:

fix: PR feedback, doc improvements for neon/vercel syncEnvVars

docs/config/extensions/syncEnvVars.mdx, after:

---
title: "Sync env vars"
sidebarTitle: "syncEnvVars"
description: "Use the syncEnvVars build extension to automatically sync environment variables to Trigger.dev"
---

The `syncEnvVars` build extension will sync env vars from another service into Trigger.dev before the deployment starts. This is useful if you are using a secret store service like Infisical or AWS Secrets Manager to store your secrets.

`syncEnvVars` takes an async callback function, and any env vars returned from the callback will be synced to Trigger.dev.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncEnvVars(async (ctx) => {
        return [
          { name: "SECRET_KEY", value: "secret-value" },
          { name: "ANOTHER_SECRET", value: "another-secret-value" },
        ];
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

The callback is passed a context object with the following properties:

- `environment`: The environment name that the task is being deployed to (e.g. `production`, `staging`, etc.)
- `projectRef`: The project ref of the Trigger.dev project
- `env`: The environment variables that are currently set in the Trigger.dev project

### Example: Sync env vars from Infisical

In this example we're using env vars from [Infisical](https://infisical.com).

```ts trigger.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";
import { InfisicalSDK } from "@infisical/sdk";

export default defineConfig({
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncEnvVars(async (ctx) => {
        const client = new InfisicalSDK();

        await client.auth().universalAuth.login({
          clientId: process.env.INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID!,
          clientSecret: process.env.INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        });

        const { secrets } = await client.secrets().listSecrets({
          environment: ctx.environment,
          projectId: process.env.INFISICAL_PROJECT_ID!,
        });

        return secrets.map((secret) => ({
          name: secret.secretKey,
          value: secret.secretValue,
        }));
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### syncVercelEnvVars

The `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension syncs environment variables from your Vercel project to Trigger.dev.

<Note>
  You need to set the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass
  in the token and project ID as arguments to the `syncVercelEnvVars` build extension. If you're
  working with a team project, you'll also need to set `VERCEL_TEAM_ID`, which can be found in your
  team settings. You can find / generate the `VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` in your Vercel
  [dashboard](https://vercel.com/account/settings/tokens). Make sure the scope of the token covers
  the project with the environment variables you want to sync.
</Note>

<Note>
  When running the build from a Vercel build environment (e.g., during a Vercel deployment), the
  environment variable values will be read from `process.env` instead of fetching them from the
  Vercel API. This is determined by checking if the `VERCEL` environment variable is present. The
  API is still used to determine which environment variables are configured for your project, but
  the actual values come from the local environment. Reading values from `process.env` allows the
  extension to use values that Vercel integrations (such as the Neon integration) set per preview
  deployment in the "Provisioning Integrations" phase that happens just before the Vercel build
  starts.
</Note>

<Note>
  If you have the Neon database Vercel integration installed and are running builds outside of the
  Vercel environment, we recommend using `syncNeonEnvVars` in addition to `syncVercelEnvVars` for your
  database environment variables. This ensures that the correct database connection strings are used for your 
  selected environment and current branch, as `syncVercelEnvVars` may not accurately reflect
  branch-specific database credentials when run locally.
</Note>

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // This will automatically use the VERCEL_ACCESS_TOKEN and VERCEL_PROJECT_ID environment variables
    extensions: [syncVercelEnvVars()],
  },
});
```

Or you can pass in the token and project ID as arguments:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncVercelEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncVercelEnvVars({
        projectId: "your-vercel-project-id",
        vercelAccessToken: "your-vercel-access-token",
        vercelTeamId: "your-vercel-team-id", // optional
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

### syncNeonEnvVars

The `syncNeonEnvVars` build extension syncs environment variables from your Neon database project to Trigger.dev. It automatically detects branches and builds the appropriate database connection strings for your environment.

<Note>
  You need to set the `NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `NEON_PROJECT_ID` environment variables, or pass them
  as arguments to the `syncNeonEnvVars` build extension. You can generate a `NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN` in
  your Neon [dashboard](https://console.neon.tech/app/settings/api-keys).
</Note>

<Note>
  When running the build from a Vercel environment (determined by checking if the `VERCEL`
  environment variable is present), this extension is skipped entirely. This is because Neon's
  Vercel integration already handles environment variable synchronization in Vercel environments.
</Note>

<Note>
  If you have the Neon database Vercel integration installed and are running builds outside of the
  Vercel environment, we recommend using `syncNeonEnvVars` in addition to `syncVercelEnvVars` for your
  database environment variables. This ensures that the correct database connection strings are used for your 
  selected environment and current branch, as `syncVercelEnvVars` may not accurately reflect
  branch-specific database credentials when run locally.
</Note>

<Note>
  This extension is skipped for `prod` environments. It is designed to sync branch-specific
  database connections for preview/staging environments.
</Note>

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncNeonEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    // This will automatically use the NEON_ACCESS_TOKEN and NEON_PROJECT_ID environment variables
    extensions: [syncNeonEnvVars()],
  },
});
```

Or you can pass in the token and project ID as arguments:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
import { syncNeonEnvVars } from "@trigger.dev/build/extensions/core";

export default defineConfig({
  project: "<project ref>",
  // Your other config settings...
  build: {
    extensions: [
      syncNeonEnvVars({
        projectId: "your-neon-project-id",
        neonAccessToken: "your-neon-access-token",
        branch: "your-branch-name", // optional, defaults to ctx.branch
        databaseName: "your-database-name", // optional, defaults to the first database
        roleName: "your-role-name", // optional, defaults to the database owner
        envVarPrefix: "MY_PREFIX_", // optional, prefix for all synced env vars
      }),
    ],
  },
});
```

The extension syncs the following environment variables (with optional prefix):

- `DATABASE_URL` - Pooled connection string
- `DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED` - Direct connection string
- `POSTGRES_URL`, `POSTGRES_URL_NO_SSL`, `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING`
- `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` - Connection string optimized for Prisma
- `POSTGRES_HOST`, `POSTGRES_USER`, `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`, `POSTGRES_DATABASE`
- `PGHOST`, `PGHOST_UNPOOLED`, `PGUSER`, `PGPASSWORD`, `PGDATABASE`
