docs/apikeys.mdx, before:

---
title: "API keys"
description: "How to authenticate with Trigger.dev so you can trigger tasks."
---

### Authentication and your secret keys

When you [trigger a task](/triggering) from your backend code, you need to set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` environment variable.

Each environment has its own secret key. You can find the value on the API keys page in the Trigger.dev dashboard:

![How to find your secret key](/images/api-keys.png)

### Automatically Configuring the SDK

To automatically configure the SDK with your secret key, you can set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` environment variable. The SDK will automatically use this value when calling API methods (like `trigger`).

```bash .env
TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY="tr_dev_…"
```

You can do the same if you are self-hosting and need to change the default URL by using `TRIGGER_API_URL`.

```bash .env
TRIGGER_API_URL="https://trigger.example.com"
```

The default URL is `https://api.trigger.dev`.

### Manually Configuring the SDK

If you prefer to manually configure the SDK, you can call the `configure` method:

```ts
import { configure } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { myTask } from "./trigger/myTasks";

configure({
  secretKey: "tr_dev_1234", // WARNING: Never actually hardcode your secret key like this
  baseURL: "https://mytrigger.example.com", // Optional
});

async function triggerTask() {
  await myTask.trigger({ userId: "1234" }); // This will use the secret key and base URL you configured
}
```

Commit message:

Preview branches docs (#2130)
* Draft preview branches docs

* More wip on docs

* Explain what the GH action does

* Added manual deploy/archive instructions

* Added dashboard section to the docs

* More wip on the preview branch docs

* Added preview/branch to the CLI deploy docs

* Add preview branch note to triggering docs

* Added preview branch notes to the API keys docs

* Added preview stuff to the Context docs

* CLI preview archive command

* Add a better explanation and details about env vars

* Fix for weird reference to the dashboard

docs/apikeys.mdx, after:

---
title: "API keys"
description: "How to authenticate with Trigger.dev so you can trigger tasks."
---

### Authentication and your secret keys

When you [trigger a task](/triggering) from your backend code, you need to set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` environment variable.

Each environment has its own secret key. You can find the value on the API keys page in the Trigger.dev dashboard:

![How to find your secret key](/images/api-keys.png)

<Note>
  For preview branches, you need to also set the `TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH` environment variable as
  well. You can find the value on the API keys page when you're on the preview branch.
</Note>

### Automatically Configuring the SDK

To automatically configure the SDK with your secret key, you can set the `TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY` environment variable. The SDK will automatically use this value when calling API methods (like `trigger`).

```bash .env
TRIGGER_SECRET_KEY="tr_dev_…"
TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH="my-branch" # Only needed for preview branches
```

You can do the same if you are self-hosting and need to change the default URL by using `TRIGGER_API_URL`.

```bash .env
TRIGGER_API_URL="https://trigger.example.com"
TRIGGER_PREVIEW_BRANCH="my-branch" # Only needed for preview branches
```

The default URL is `https://api.trigger.dev`.

### Manually Configuring the SDK

If you prefer to manually configure the SDK, you can call the `configure` method:

```ts
import { configure } from "@trigger.dev/sdk/v3";
import { myTask } from "./trigger/myTasks";

configure({
  secretKey: "tr_dev_1234", // WARNING: Never actually hardcode your secret key like this
  previewBranch: "my-branch", // Only needed for preview branches
  baseURL: "https://mytrigger.example.com", // Optional
});

async function triggerTask() {
  await myTask.trigger({ userId: "1234" }); // This will use the secret key and base URL you configured
}
```
