docs/limits.mdx, before:

---
title: "Limits"
description: "There are some hard and soft limits that you might hit."
---

import RateLimitHitUseBatchTrigger from "/snippets/rate-limit-hit-use-batchtrigger.mdx";

## Concurrency limits

| Pricing tier | Limit                |
| :----------- | :------------------- |
| Free         | 10 concurrent runs   |
| Hobby        | 25 concurrent runs   |
| Pro          | 100+ concurrent runs |

Additional bundles above the Pro tier are available for $50/month per 50 concurrent runs. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

## Rate limits

Generally speaking each SDK call is an API call.

| Limit | Details                   |
| :---- | :------------------------ |
| API   | 1,500 requests per minute |

You can request a higher rate limit from us if you're on a paid plan.

<RateLimitHitUseBatchTrigger />

## Queued tasks

The number of queued tasks by environment.

| Limit   | Details            |
| :------ | :----------------- |
| Dev     | At most 500        |
| Staging | At most 10 million |
| Prod    | At most 10 million |

## Schedules

| Pricing tier | Limit              |
| :----------- | :----------------- |
| Free         | 10 per project     |
| Hobby        | 100 per project    |
| Pro          | 1,000+ per project |

Additional bundles above the Pro tier are available for $10/month per 1,000 schedules. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

When attaching schedules to tasks we strongly recommend you add them [in our dashboard](/tasks/scheduled#attaching-schedules-in-the-dashboard) if they're "static". That way you can control them easily per environment.

If you add them [dynamically using code](/management/schedules/create) make sure you add a `deduplicationKey` so you don't add the same schedule to a task multiple times. If you don't your task will get triggered multiple times, it will cost you more, and you will hit the limit.

If you're creating schedules for your user you will definitely need to request more schedules from us.

## Preview branches

| Pricing tier | Limit                |
| :----------- | :------------------- |
| Free         | Not available        |
| Hobby        | 5 preview branches   |
| Pro          | 20+ preview branches |

Additional bundles above the Pro tier are available for $10/month per preview branch. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

## Realtime connections

| Pricing tier | Limit                       |
| :----------- | :-------------------------- |
| Free         | 10 concurrent connections   |
| Hobby        | 50 concurrent connections   |
| Pro          | 500+ concurrent connections |

Additional bundles are available for $10/month per 100 concurrent connections. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

## Task payloads and outputs

| Limit                  | Details                                                            |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Single trigger payload | Must not exceed 3MB                                                |
| Batch trigger payload  | Each item can be up to 3MB (SDK 4.3.1+). Prior: 1MB total combined |
| Task outputs           | Must not exceed 10MB                                               |

Payloads and outputs that exceed 512KB will be offloaded to object storage and a presigned URL will be provided to download the data when calling `runs.retrieve`. You don't need to do anything to handle this in your tasks however, as we will transparently upload/download these during operation.

## Batch size

A single batch can have a maximum of 1,000 items with SDK 4.3.1+. Prior versions are limited to 500 items.

<SoftLimit />

## Batch trigger rate limits

Batch triggering uses a token bucket algorithm to rate limit the number of runs you can trigger per environment. Each run in a batch consumes one token.

| Pricing tier | Bucket size | Refill rate           |
| :----------- | :---------- | :-------------------- |
| Free         | 1,200 runs  | 100 runs every 10 sec |
| Hobby        | 5,000 runs  | 500 runs every 5 sec  |
| Pro          | 5,000 runs  | 500 runs every 5 sec  |

**How it works**: You can burst up to your bucket size, then tokens refill at the specified rate. For example, a Free user can trigger 1,200 runs immediately, then must wait for tokens to refill (100 runs become available every 10 seconds).

## Batch processing concurrency

The number of batches that can be processed concurrently per environment.

| Pricing tier | Limit                 |
| :----------- | :-------------------- |
| Free         | 1 concurrent batch    |
| Hobby        | 10 concurrent batches |
| Pro          | 10 concurrent batches |

This limits how many batches can have their items actively being processed into runs at the same time.

## Log retention

| Pricing tier | Limit   |
| :----------- | :------ |
| Free         | 1 day   |
| Hobby        | 7 days  |
| Pro          | 30 days |

## Log size

We limit the size of logs to prevent oversized data potentially causing issues.

<Expandable title="log limits">

#### Attribute Limits

- Span Attribute Count Limit: 256
- Log Attribute Count Limit: 256
- Span Attribute Value Length Limit: 131072 characters
- Log Attribute Value Length Limit: 131072 characters

#### Event and Link Limits

- Span Event Count Limit: 10
- Link Count Limit: 2
- Attributes per Link Limit: 10
- Attributes per Event Limit: 10

#### I/O Packet Length Limit

128 KB (131,072 bytes)

#### Attribute Clipping Behavior

- Attributes exceeding the value length limit (1028 characters) are discarded.
- If the total number of attributes exceeds 256, additional attributes are not included.

#### Attribute Value Size Calculation

- Strings: Actual length of the string
- Numbers: 8 bytes
- Booleans: 4 bytes
- Arrays: Sum of the sizes of all elements
- Undefined or null: 0 bytes

</Expandable>

## Alerts

An alert destination is a single email address, Slack channel, or webhook URL that you want to send alerts to.

| Pricing tier | Limit                   |
| :----------- | :---------------------- |
| Free         | 1 alert destination     |
| Hobby        | 3 alert destinations    |
| Pro          | 100+ alert destinations |

If you're on the Pro plan and need more than the plan limit, you can request more by contacting us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord).

## Machines

The default machine is `small-1x` which has 0.5 vCPU and 0.5 GB of RAM. You can optionally configure a higher spec machine which will increase the cost of running the task but can also improve the performance of the task if it is CPU or memory bound.

See the [machine configurations](/machines#machine-configurations) for more details.

## Team members

| Pricing tier | Limit            |
| :----------- | :--------------- |
| Free         | 5 team members   |
| Hobby        | 5 team members   |
| Pro          | 25+ team members |

Additional seats are available for $20/month per seat. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

Commit message:

Updates the concurrency limit docs page

docs/limits.mdx, after:

---
title: "Limits"
description: "There are some hard and soft limits that you might hit."
---

import RateLimitHitUseBatchTrigger from "/snippets/rate-limit-hit-use-batchtrigger.mdx";

## Concurrency limits

| Pricing tier | Limit                |
| :----------- | :------------------- |
| Free         | 10 concurrent runs   |
| Hobby        | 25 concurrent runs   |
| Pro          | 100+ concurrent runs |

Extra concurrency above the Pro tier limit is available via the dashboard. Click the "Concurrency" page from the left sidebar when on the Pro plan to purchase more.

## Rate limits

Generally speaking each SDK call is an API call.

| Limit | Details                   |
| :---- | :------------------------ |
| API   | 1,500 requests per minute |

You can request a higher rate limit from us if you're on a paid plan.

<RateLimitHitUseBatchTrigger />

## Queued tasks

The number of queued tasks by environment.

| Limit   | Details            |
| :------ | :----------------- |
| Dev     | At most 500        |
| Staging | At most 10 million |
| Prod    | At most 10 million |

## Schedules

| Pricing tier | Limit              |
| :----------- | :----------------- |
| Free         | 10 per project     |
| Hobby        | 100 per project    |
| Pro          | 1,000+ per project |

Additional bundles above the Pro tier are available for $10/month per 1,000 schedules. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

When attaching schedules to tasks we strongly recommend you add them [in our dashboard](/tasks/scheduled#attaching-schedules-in-the-dashboard) if they're "static". That way you can control them easily per environment.

If you add them [dynamically using code](/management/schedules/create) make sure you add a `deduplicationKey` so you don't add the same schedule to a task multiple times. If you don't your task will get triggered multiple times, it will cost you more, and you will hit the limit.

If you're creating schedules for your user you will definitely need to request more schedules from us.

## Preview branches

| Pricing tier | Limit                |
| :----------- | :------------------- |
| Free         | Not available        |
| Hobby        | 5 preview branches   |
| Pro          | 20+ preview branches |

Additional bundles above the Pro tier are available for $10/month per preview branch. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

## Realtime connections

| Pricing tier | Limit                       |
| :----------- | :-------------------------- |
| Free         | 10 concurrent connections   |
| Hobby        | 50 concurrent connections   |
| Pro          | 500+ concurrent connections |

Additional bundles are available for $10/month per 100 concurrent connections. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.

## Task payloads and outputs

| Limit                  | Details                                                            |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Single trigger payload | Must not exceed 3MB                                                |
| Batch trigger payload  | Each item can be up to 3MB (SDK 4.3.1+). Prior: 1MB total combined |
| Task outputs           | Must not exceed 10MB                                               |

Payloads and outputs that exceed 512KB will be offloaded to object storage and a presigned URL will be provided to download the data when calling `runs.retrieve`. You don't need to do anything to handle this in your tasks however, as we will transparently upload/download these during operation.

## Batch size

A single batch can have a maximum of 1,000 items with SDK 4.3.1+. Prior versions are limited to 500 items.

<SoftLimit />

## Batch trigger rate limits

Batch triggering uses a token bucket algorithm to rate limit the number of runs you can trigger per environment. Each run in a batch consumes one token.

| Pricing tier | Bucket size | Refill rate           |
| :----------- | :---------- | :-------------------- |
| Free         | 1,200 runs  | 100 runs every 10 sec |
| Hobby        | 5,000 runs  | 500 runs every 5 sec  |
| Pro          | 5,000 runs  | 500 runs every 5 sec  |

**How it works**: You can burst up to your bucket size, then tokens refill at the specified rate. For example, a Free user can trigger 1,200 runs immediately, then must wait for tokens to refill (100 runs become available every 10 seconds).

## Batch processing concurrency

The number of batches that can be processed concurrently per environment.

| Pricing tier | Limit                 |
| :----------- | :-------------------- |
| Free         | 1 concurrent batch    |
| Hobby        | 10 concurrent batches |
| Pro          | 10 concurrent batches |

This limits how many batches can have their items actively being processed into runs at the same time.

## Log retention

| Pricing tier | Limit   |
| :----------- | :------ |
| Free         | 1 day   |
| Hobby        | 7 days  |
| Pro          | 30 days |

## Log size

We limit the size of logs to prevent oversized data potentially causing issues.

<Expandable title="log limits">

#### Attribute Limits

- Span Attribute Count Limit: 256
- Log Attribute Count Limit: 256
- Span Attribute Value Length Limit: 131072 characters
- Log Attribute Value Length Limit: 131072 characters

#### Event and Link Limits

- Span Event Count Limit: 10
- Link Count Limit: 2
- Attributes per Link Limit: 10
- Attributes per Event Limit: 10

#### I/O Packet Length Limit

128 KB (131,072 bytes)

#### Attribute Clipping Behavior

- Attributes exceeding the value length limit (1028 characters) are discarded.
- If the total number of attributes exceeds 256, additional attributes are not included.

#### Attribute Value Size Calculation

- Strings: Actual length of the string
- Numbers: 8 bytes
- Booleans: 4 bytes
- Arrays: Sum of the sizes of all elements
- Undefined or null: 0 bytes

</Expandable>

## Alerts

An alert destination is a single email address, Slack channel, or webhook URL that you want to send alerts to.

| Pricing tier | Limit                   |
| :----------- | :---------------------- |
| Free         | 1 alert destination     |
| Hobby        | 3 alert destinations    |
| Pro          | 100+ alert destinations |

If you're on the Pro plan and need more than the plan limit, you can request more by contacting us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord).

## Machines

The default machine is `small-1x` which has 0.5 vCPU and 0.5 GB of RAM. You can optionally configure a higher spec machine which will increase the cost of running the task but can also improve the performance of the task if it is CPU or memory bound.

See the [machine configurations](/machines#machine-configurations) for more details.

## Team members

| Pricing tier | Limit            |
| :----------- | :--------------- |
| Free         | 5 team members   |
| Hobby        | 5 team members   |
| Pro          | 25+ team members |

Additional seats are available for $20/month per seat. Contact us via [email](https://trigger.dev/contact) or [Discord](https://trigger.dev/discord) to request more.
