docs/wait-for-token.mdx, before:

---
title: "Wait for token"
description: "Wait until a token is completed."
tag: "v4"
---

import UpgradeToV4Note from "/snippets/upgrade-to-v4-note.mdx";

Waitpoint tokens pause task runs until you complete the token. They're commonly used for approval workflows and other scenarios where you need to wait for external confirmation, such as human-in-the-loop processes.

You can complete a token using the SDK or by making a POST request to the token's URL.

<UpgradeToV4Note />

## Usage

To get started using wait tokens, you need to first create a token using the `wait.createToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

// This can be called anywhere in your codebase, either in a task or in your backend code
const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m", // you can optionally specify a timeout for the token
});
```

Once you have a token, you can wait for it to be completed using the `wait.forToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

type ApprovalToken = {
  status: "approved" | "rejected";
};

// This must be called inside a task run function
const result = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId);

if (result.ok) {
  console.log("Token completed", result.output.status); // "approved" or "rejected"
} else {
  console.log("Token timed out", result.error);
}
```

To complete a token, you can use the `wait.completeToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
// This can be called anywhere in your codebase, or from an external service,
// passing in the token ID and the output of the token
await wait.completeToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId, {
  status: "approved",
});
```

Or you can make an HTTP POST request to the `url` it returns:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m",
});

const call = await replicate.predictions.create({
  version: "27b93a2413e7f36cd83da926f3656280b2931564ff050bf9575f1fdf9bcd7478",
  input: {
    prompt: "A painting of a cat by Andy Warhol",
  },
  // pass the provided URL to Replicate's webhook, so they can "callback"
  webhook: token.url,
  webhook_events_filter: ["completed"],
});

const prediction = await wait.forToken<Prediction>(token).unwrap();
// unwrap() throws a timeout error or returns the result   👆
```

## wait.createToken

Create a waitpoint token.

### options

The `createToken` function accepts an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="timeout" type="string" optional>
  The maximum amount of time to wait for the token to be completed. Defaults to "10m".
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  An idempotency key for the token. If provided, the token will be completed with the same payload
  if the same idempotency key is used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyTTL" type="string" optional>
  The time to live for the idempotency key. Defaults to "1h".
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]" optional>
  Tags to attach to the token. Tags can be used to filter waitpoints in the dashboard.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `createToken` function returns a token object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token. Starts with `waitpoint_`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="isCached" type="boolean">
  Whether the token is cached. Will return true if the token was created with an idempotency key and
  the same idempotency key was used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="publicAccessToken" type="string">
  A Public Access Token that can be used to complete the token from a client-side application (or
  another backend). See our [Realtime docs](/realtime/auth) for more details.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m",
  idempotencyKey: "my-idempotency-key",
  tags: ["my-tag"],
});
```

## wait.completeToken

Complete a waitpoint token.

### parameters

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token to complete.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  The data to complete the token with.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `completeToken` function returns an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="success" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

await wait.completeToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId, {
  status: "approved",
});
```

### From another language

You can complete a token using a raw HTTP request or from another language.

<CodeGroup>

```bash curl
curl -X POST "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer {token}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"output": { "status": "approved"}}'
```

```python python
import requests

response = requests.post(
  "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete",
  headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"},
  json={"output": { "status": "approved"}}
)
```

```ruby ruby
require "net/http"

uri = URI("https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete")

http = Net::HTTP.new(uri.host, uri.port)
request = Net::HTTP::Post.new(uri)
request["Authorization"] = "Bearer {token}"
request["Content-Type"] = "application/json"
request.body = JSON.generate({ output: { status: "approved" } })

response = http.request(request)
```

```go go
package main

import (
	"bytes"
	"encoding/json"
	"fmt"
	"net/http"
)

func main() {
	url := "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete"

	payload := map[string]interface{}{
		"output": map[string]interface{}{
			"status": "approved",
		},
	}

	jsonData, err := json.Marshal(payload)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error marshalling payload:", err)
		return
	}

	req, err := http.NewRequest("POST", url, bytes.NewBuffer(jsonData))
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error creating request:", err)
		return
	}

	req.Header.Set("Authorization", "Bearer {token}")
	req.Header.Set("Content-Type", "application/json")

	client := &http.Client{}
	resp, err := client.Do(req)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error sending request:", err)
		return
	}

	defer resp.Body.Close()

	fmt.Println("Response status:", resp.Status)
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## wait.forToken

Wait for a token to be completed.

### parameters

<ParamField query="token" type="string | { id: string }">
  The token to wait for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="options" type="object" optional>
  Options for the wait.

  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ParamField query="releaseConcurrency" type="boolean" optional>
      If set to true, this will cause the waitpoint to release the current run from the queue's concurrency.

      This is useful if you want to allow other runs to execute while waiting

      Note: It's possible that this run will not be able to resume when the waitpoint is complete if this is set to true.
      It will go back in the queue and will resume once concurrency becomes available.

      The default is `false`.
    </ParamField>

  </Expandable>
</ParamField>

### returns

The `forToken` function returns a result object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="ok" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  If `ok` is `true`, this will be the output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  If `ok` is `false`, this will be the error that occurred. The only error that can occur is a
  timeout error.
</ParamField>

### unwrap()

We provide a handy `.unwrap()` method that will throw an error if the result is not ok. This means your happy path is a lot cleaner.

```ts
const approval = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId).unwrap();
// unwrap means an error will throw if the waitpoint times out 👆

// This is the actual data you sent to the token now, not a result object
console.log("Approval", approval);
```

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const result = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId);

if (result.ok) {
  console.log("Token completed", result.output.status); // "approved" or "rejected"
} else {
  console.log("Token timed out", result.error);
}
```

## wait.listTokens

List all tokens for an environment.

### parameters

The `listTokens` function accepts an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="status" type="string | string[]" optional>
  Statuses to filter by. Can be one or more of: `WAITING`, `COMPLETED`, `TIMED_OUT`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  The idempotency key to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string | string[]" optional>
  Tags to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="period" type="string" optional>
  The period to filter by. Can be one of: `1h`, `1d`, `7d`, `30d`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="from" type="Date | number" optional>
  The start date to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="to" type="Date | number" optional>
  The end date to filter by.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `listTokens` function returns a list of tokens that can be iterated over using a for-await-of loop.

Each token is an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="status" type="string">
  The status of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="completedAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="timeoutAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token will timeout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  The idempotency key of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyExpiresAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the idempotency key will expire.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]">
  The tags of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="createdAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was created.
</ParamField>

<Note>
  The output of the token is not included in the list. To get the output, you need to retrieve the
  token using the `wait.retrieveToken` function.
</Note>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const tokens = await wait.listTokens({
  status: "COMPLETED",
  tags: ["user:123"],
});

for await (const token of tokens) {
  console.log(token);
}
```

## wait.retrieveToken

Retrieve a token by ID.

### parameters

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token to retrieve.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `retrieveToken` function returns a token object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="status" type="string">
  The status of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="completedAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="timeoutAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token will timeout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  The idempotency key of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyExpiresAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the idempotency key will expire.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]">
  The tags of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="createdAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was created.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  The output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  The error that occurred.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.retrieveToken(tokenId);

console.log(token);
```

Commit message:

Docs – v4 GA updates (#2298)
* Adds new features table to top of v4 upgrade guide

* Adds wait idempotency to wait-until, wait-for, and wait-for-token pages

* Adds new priority docs page and updates the v4 upgrade guide

* Adds new task lifecycle hooks

* Removes the message about requiring tasks to be exported

* Adds new global lifecycle hooks section

* Moves sections from upgrade guide into the table

* Adds hidden task page

* Improves the global lifecycle hooks section

* Updates middleware and locals section

* Adds new useWaitToken page to the react hooks section

* Adds a new ai.tool section

* Moves Docker (legacy) page into self-hosting section

* Removes known issues from v4 upgrade guide

* Replace “toolTask” with “ai.tool” in the Streams page example

* Renames guide to “Migrating from v3” and adds redirect

* Remove references to v4

* Removes changelog from migration guide

* The installation guide now references `@latest update`

* Changes all references from `/sdk/v3` to `/sdk`

* Updates @v4-beta to @latest

* Fixed broken link

* Fixes broken link

* Adds an upgrade to v4 using AI section

* Fixes 2 broken links

* Adds an entry for targetting preview branches

* Updates the run statuses

* Adds boolean helpers section to the runs and realtime pages

* Updates the concurrency page

* Updates the test page to include the new options

* Adds SDK and curl options for the preview branch targeting

* Updates new bulk actions page

* Remove the releasing concurrency section

* Got rid of some more @v4-beta mentions

* Improved rate limit docs

* Improved migrating docs

* Removed commented sections of the docs

* useWaitToken hook

* Fixed the description

* Fix for missing test image

---------

Co-authored-by: Matt Aitken <matt@mattaitken.com>
Co-authored-by: Dan <8297864+D-K-P@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/wait-for-token.mdx, after:

---
title: "Wait for token"
description: "Wait until a token is completed."
---

Waitpoint tokens pause task runs until you complete the token. They're commonly used for approval workflows and other scenarios where you need to wait for external confirmation, such as human-in-the-loop processes.

You can complete a token using the SDK or by making a POST request to the token's URL.

## Usage

To get started using wait tokens, you need to first create a token using the `wait.createToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

// This can be called anywhere in your codebase, either in a task or in your backend code
const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m", // you can optionally specify a timeout for the token
});
```

Once you have a token, you can wait for it to be completed using the `wait.forToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

type ApprovalToken = {
  status: "approved" | "rejected";
};

// This must be called inside a task run function
const result = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId);

if (result.ok) {
  console.log("Token completed", result.output.status); // "approved" or "rejected"
} else {
  console.log("Token timed out", result.error);
}
```

To complete a token, you can use the `wait.completeToken` function:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";
// This can be called anywhere in your codebase, or from an external service,
// passing in the token ID and the output of the token
await wait.completeToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId, {
  status: "approved",
});
```

Or you can make an HTTP POST request to the `url` it returns:

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m",
});

const call = await replicate.predictions.create({
  version: "27b93a2413e7f36cd83da926f3656280b2931564ff050bf9575f1fdf9bcd7478",
  input: {
    prompt: "A painting of a cat by Andy Warhol",
  },
  // pass the provided URL to Replicate's webhook, so they can "callback"
  webhook: token.url,
  webhook_events_filter: ["completed"],
});

const prediction = await wait.forToken<Prediction>(token).unwrap();
// unwrap() throws a timeout error or returns the result   👆
```

## wait.createToken

Create a waitpoint token.

### options

The `createToken` function accepts an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="timeout" type="string" optional>
  The maximum amount of time to wait for the token to be completed. Defaults to "10m".
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  An idempotency key for the token. If provided, the token will be completed with the same payload
  if the same idempotency key is used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyTTL" type="string" optional>
  The time to live for the idempotency key. Defaults to "1h".
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]" optional>
  Tags to attach to the token. Tags can be used to filter waitpoints in the dashboard.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `createToken` function returns a token object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token. Starts with `waitpoint_`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="isCached" type="boolean">
  Whether the token is cached. Will return true if the token was created with an idempotency key and
  the same idempotency key was used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="publicAccessToken" type="string">
  A Public Access Token that can be used to complete the token from a client-side application (or
  another backend). See our [Realtime docs](/realtime/auth) for more details.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.createToken({
  timeout: "10m",
  idempotencyKey: "my-idempotency-key",
  tags: ["my-tag"],
});
```

## wait.completeToken

Complete a waitpoint token.

### parameters

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token to complete.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  The data to complete the token with.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `completeToken` function returns an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="success" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

await wait.completeToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId, {
  status: "approved",
});
```

### From another language

You can complete a token using a raw HTTP request or from another language.

<CodeGroup>

```bash curl
curl -X POST "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer {token}" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"output": { "status": "approved"}}'
```

```python python
import requests

response = requests.post(
  "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete",
  headers={"Authorization": f"Bearer {token}"},
  json={"output": { "status": "approved"}}
)
```

```ruby ruby
require "net/http"

uri = URI("https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete")

http = Net::HTTP.new(uri.host, uri.port)
request = Net::HTTP::Post.new(uri)
request["Authorization"] = "Bearer {token}"
request["Content-Type"] = "application/json"
request.body = JSON.generate({ output: { status: "approved" } })

response = http.request(request)
```

```go go
package main

import (
	"bytes"
	"encoding/json"
	"fmt"
	"net/http"
)

func main() {
	url := "https://api.trigger.dev/api/v1/waitpoints/tokens/{tokenId}/complete"

	payload := map[string]interface{}{
		"output": map[string]interface{}{
			"status": "approved",
		},
	}

	jsonData, err := json.Marshal(payload)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error marshalling payload:", err)
		return
	}

	req, err := http.NewRequest("POST", url, bytes.NewBuffer(jsonData))
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error creating request:", err)
		return
	}

	req.Header.Set("Authorization", "Bearer {token}")
	req.Header.Set("Content-Type", "application/json")

	client := &http.Client{}
	resp, err := client.Do(req)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println("Error sending request:", err)
		return
	}

	defer resp.Body.Close()

	fmt.Println("Response status:", resp.Status)
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## wait.forToken

Wait for a token to be completed.

### parameters

<ParamField query="token" type="string | { id: string }">
  The token to wait for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="options" type="object" optional>
  Options for the wait.

  <Expandable title="properties">
    <ParamField query="releaseConcurrency" type="boolean" optional>
      If set to true, this will cause the waitpoint to release the current run from the queue's concurrency.

      This is useful if you want to allow other runs to execute while waiting

      Note: It's possible that this run will not be able to resume when the waitpoint is complete if this is set to true.
      It will go back in the queue and will resume once concurrency becomes available.

      The default is `false`.
    </ParamField>

  </Expandable>
</ParamField>

### returns

The `forToken` function returns a result object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="ok" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  If `ok` is `true`, this will be the output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  If `ok` is `false`, this will be the error that occurred. The only error that can occur is a
  timeout error.
</ParamField>

### unwrap()

We provide a handy `.unwrap()` method that will throw an error if the result is not ok. This means your happy path is a lot cleaner.

```ts
const approval = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId).unwrap();
// unwrap means an error will throw if the waitpoint times out 👆

// This is the actual data you sent to the token now, not a result object
console.log("Approval", approval);
```

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const result = await wait.forToken<ApprovalToken>(tokenId);

if (result.ok) {
  console.log("Token completed", result.output.status); // "approved" or "rejected"
} else {
  console.log("Token timed out", result.error);
}
```

## wait.listTokens

List all tokens for an environment.

### parameters

The `listTokens` function accepts an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="status" type="string | string[]" optional>
  Statuses to filter by. Can be one or more of: `WAITING`, `COMPLETED`, `TIMED_OUT`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  The idempotency key to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string | string[]" optional>
  Tags to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="period" type="string" optional>
  The period to filter by. Can be one of: `1h`, `1d`, `7d`, `30d`.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="from" type="Date | number" optional>
  The start date to filter by.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="to" type="Date | number" optional>
  The end date to filter by.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `listTokens` function returns a list of tokens that can be iterated over using a for-await-of loop.

Each token is an object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="status" type="string">
  The status of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="completedAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="timeoutAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token will timeout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  The idempotency key of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyExpiresAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the idempotency key will expire.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]">
  The tags of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="createdAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was created.
</ParamField>

<Note>
  The output of the token is not included in the list. To get the output, you need to retrieve the
  token using the `wait.retrieveToken` function.
</Note>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const tokens = await wait.listTokens({
  status: "COMPLETED",
  tags: ["user:123"],
});

for await (const token of tokens) {
  console.log(token);
}
```

## wait.retrieveToken

Retrieve a token by ID.

### parameters

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token to retrieve.
</ParamField>

### returns

The `retrieveToken` function returns a token object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="id" type="string">
  The ID of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="url" type="string">
  The URL of the token. This is the URL you can make a POST request to in order to complete the token.

The JSON body of the POST request will be used as the output of the token. If there's no body the output will be an empty object `{}`.

</ParamField>

<ParamField query="status" type="string">
  The status of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="completedAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="timeoutAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token will timeout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  The idempotency key of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyExpiresAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the idempotency key will expire.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]">
  The tags of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="createdAt" type="Date">
  The date and time the token was created.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  The output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  The error that occurred.
</ParamField>

### Example

```ts
import { wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const token = await wait.retrieveToken(tokenId);

console.log(token);
```

## Wait idempotency

You can pass an idempotency key to any wait function, allowing you to skip waits if the same idempotency key is used again. This can be useful if you want to skip waits when retrying a task, for example:

```ts
// Specify the idempotency key and TTL when creating a wait token
const token = await wait.createToken({
  idempotencyKey: "my-idempotency-key",
  idempotencyKeyTTL: "1h",
});
```
