docs/wait.mdx, before:

---
title: "Wait: Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "During your run you can wait for a period of time or for something to happen."
---

import PausedExecutionFree from "/snippets/paused-execution-free.mdx"

Waiting allows you to write complex tasks as a set of async code, without having to scheduled another task or poll for changes.

<PausedExecutionFree />

| Function                                  | What it does                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [wait.for()](/wait-for)                | Waits for a specific period of time, e.g. 1 day.                                          |
| [wait.until()](/wait-until)            | Waits until the provided `Date`.                                                          |
| [wait.forRequest()](/wait-for-request) | Waits until a matching HTTP request is received, and gives you the data to continue with. |
| [waitForEvent()](/wait-for-event)      | Waits for a matching event, like in the example above.                                    |

Commit message:

Delete old wait-for pages & create new wait-for-token page

docs/wait.mdx, after:

---
title: "Wait: Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "During your run you can wait for a period of time or for something to happen."
---

import PausedExecutionFree from "/snippets/paused-execution-free.mdx"

Waiting allows you to write complex tasks as a set of async code, without having to scheduled another task or poll for changes.

<PausedExecutionFree />

| Function                               | What it does                                                                              |
| :--------------------------------------| :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [wait.for()](/wait-for)                | Waits for a specific period of time, e.g. 1 day.                                          |
| [wait.until()](/wait-until)            | Waits until the provided `Date`.                                                          |
| [wait.forToken()](/wait-for-token)     | Pauses task runs until a token is completed.                                              |
