docs/wait-for-http-callback.mdx, before:

---
title: "Wait for HTTP callback"
description: "Pause runs until an HTTP callback is made to the provided URL."
---

import UpgradeToV4Note from "/snippets/upgrade-to-v4-note.mdx";

The `wait.forHttpCallback()` function gives you a callback URL, and then pauses the run until that callback is hit. This is most commonly used with 3rd party APIs that take a long time and that accept a callback (or webhook) URL.

When the callback URL is requested the run will continue where it left off with the body of the request as the output available for you to use.

<UpgradeToV4Note />

## Usage

In this example we create an image using Replicate. Their API accepts a "webhook", which is a callback.

```ts
import { logger, task, wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const replicate = new Replicate({
  auth: process.env.REPLICATE_API_KEY,
});

export const replicate = task({
  id: "replicate",
  run: async () => {
    // This will pause the run and give you a URL
    const result = await wait.forHttpCallback<Prediction>(
      async (url) => {
        //   👆 This URL continues your run when hit with a POST request

        // Make the call to Replicate, passing in the URL
        await replicate.predictions.create({
          version: "27b93a2413e7f36cd83da926f3656280b2931564ff050bf9575f1fdf9bcd7478",
          input: {
            prompt: "A painting of a cat by Any Warhol",
          },
          // Make sure to pass the callback URL
          //       👇
          webhook: url,
          // We only want to call when it's completed
          webhook_events_filter: ["completed"],
        });
      },
      {
        // We'll fail the waitpoint after 10m of inactivity
        timeout: "10m",
      }
    );

    if (!result.ok) {
      throw new Error("Failed to create prediction");
    }

    logger.log("Result", result);

    const imageUrl = result.output.output;
    logger.log("Image URL", imageUrl);
  },
});
```

## unwrap()

We provide a handy `.unwrap()` method that will throw an error if the result is not ok. This means your happy path is a lot cleaner.

```ts
const prediction = await wait
  .forHttpCallback<Prediction>(
    async (url) => {
      // ...
    },
    {
      timeout: "10m",
    }
  )
  .unwrap();
// 👆 This will throw an error if the waitpoint times out

// This is the actual data you sent to the callback now, not a result object
logger.log("Prediction", prediction);
```

### Options

The `wait.forHttpCallback` function accepts an optional second parameter with the following properties:

<ParamField query="timeout" type="string" optional>
  The maximum amount of time to wait for the token to be completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  An idempotency key for the token. If provided, the token will be completed with the same output if
  the same idempotency key is used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyTTL" type="string" optional>
  The time to live for the idempotency key. After this time, the idempotency key will be ignored and
  can be reused to create a new waitpoint.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]" optional>
  Tags to attach to the token. Tags can be used to filter waitpoints in the dashboard.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="releaseConcurrency" type="boolean" optional>
  If set to true, this will cause the waitpoint to release the current run from the queue's concurrency.

This is useful if you want to allow other runs to execute while waiting

Note: It's possible that this run will not be able to resume when the waitpoint is complete if this is set to true.
It will go back in the queue and will resume once concurrency becomes available.

The default is `false`.

</ParamField>

### returns

The `forHttpCallback` function returns a result object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="ok" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  If `ok` is `true`, this will be the output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  If `ok` is `false`, this will be the error that occurred. The only error that can occur is a
  timeout error.
</ParamField>

### unwrap() returns

If you use the `unwrap()` method, it will just return the output of the token. If an error occurs it will throw an error.

Commit message:

Added more docs details about the callback format

docs/wait-for-http-callback.mdx, after:

---
title: "Wait for HTTP callback"
description: "Pause runs until an HTTP callback is made to the provided URL."
---

import UpgradeToV4Note from "/snippets/upgrade-to-v4-note.mdx";

The `wait.forHttpCallback()` function gives you a callback URL, and then pauses the run until that callback is hit with a POST request. This is most commonly used with 3rd party APIs that take a long time and that accept a callback (or webhook) URL.

When the callback URL is requested the run will continue where it left off with the body of the request as the output available for you to use.

<UpgradeToV4Note />

## Usage

In this example we create an image using Replicate. Their API accepts a "webhook", which is a callback.

```ts
import { logger, task, wait } from "@trigger.dev/sdk";

const replicate = new Replicate({
  auth: process.env.REPLICATE_API_KEY,
});

export const replicate = task({
  id: "replicate",
  run: async () => {
    // This will pause the run and give you a URL
    const result = await wait.forHttpCallback<Prediction>(
      async (url) => {
        //   👆 This URL continues your run when hit with a POST request

        // Make the call to Replicate, passing in the URL
        await replicate.predictions.create({
          version: "27b93a2413e7f36cd83da926f3656280b2931564ff050bf9575f1fdf9bcd7478",
          input: {
            prompt: "A painting of a cat by Any Warhol",
          },
          // Make sure to pass the callback URL
          //       👇
          webhook: url,
          // We only want to call when it's completed
          webhook_events_filter: ["completed"],
        });
      },
      {
        // We'll fail the waitpoint after 10m of inactivity
        timeout: "10m",
      }
    );

    if (!result.ok) {
      throw new Error("Failed to create prediction");
    }

    logger.log("Result", result);

    const imageUrl = result.output.output;
    logger.log("Image URL", imageUrl);
  },
});
```

## unwrap()

We provide a handy `.unwrap()` method that will throw an error if the result is not ok. This means your happy path is a lot cleaner.

```ts
const prediction = await wait
  .forHttpCallback<Prediction>(
    async (url) => {
      // ...
    },
    {
      timeout: "10m",
    }
  )
  .unwrap();
// 👆 This will throw an error if the waitpoint times out

// This is the actual data you sent to the callback now, not a result object
logger.log("Prediction", prediction);
```

### Options

The `wait.forHttpCallback` function accepts an optional second parameter with the following properties:

<ParamField query="timeout" type="string" optional>
  The maximum amount of time to wait for the token to be completed.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKey" type="string" optional>
  An idempotency key for the token. If provided, the token will be completed with the same output if
  the same idempotency key is used again.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="idempotencyKeyTTL" type="string" optional>
  The time to live for the idempotency key. After this time, the idempotency key will be ignored and
  can be reused to create a new waitpoint.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="tags" type="string[]" optional>
  Tags to attach to the token. Tags can be used to filter waitpoints in the dashboard.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="releaseConcurrency" type="boolean" optional>
  If set to true, this will cause the waitpoint to release the current run from the queue's concurrency.

This is useful if you want to allow other runs to execute while waiting

Note: It's possible that this run will not be able to resume when the waitpoint is complete if this is set to true.
It will go back in the queue and will resume once concurrency becomes available.

The default is `false`.

</ParamField>

### returns

The `forHttpCallback` function returns a result object with the following properties:

<ParamField query="ok" type="boolean">
  Whether the token was completed successfully.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="output" type="any">
  If `ok` is `true`, this will be the output of the token.
</ParamField>

<ParamField query="error" type="Error">
  If `ok` is `false`, this will be the error that occurred. The only error that can occur is a
  timeout error.
</ParamField>

### unwrap() returns

If you use the `unwrap()` method, it will just return the output of the token. If an error occurs it will throw an error.

## The format of the callback request

If you want to offload work to one of your own services you will need to do the callback request yourself.

The `wait.forHttpCallback()` function gives you a unique one-time use URL. You should do a `POST` request to this URL with a text body that is JSON parseable.
