docs/writing-tasks-introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Writing tasks: Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Tasks are the core of Trigger.dev. They are long-running processes that are triggered by events."
---

import ExamplesCards from "/snippets/examples-cards.mdx";

Before digging deeper into the details of writing tasks, you should read the [fundamentals of tasks](/tasks/overview) to understand what tasks are and how they work.

## Writing tasks

| Topic                                        | Description                                                                                         |
| :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Logging](/logging)                          | View and send logs and traces from your tasks.                                                      |
| [Errors & retrying](/errors-retrying)        | How to deal with errors and write reliable tasks.                                                   |
| [Wait](/wait)                                | Wait for periods of time or for external events to occur before continuing.                         |
| [Concurrency & Queues](/queue-concurrency)   | Configure what you want to happen when there is more than one run at a time.                        |
| [Realtime notifications](/realtime/overview) | Send realtime notifications from your task that you can subscribe to from your backend or frontend. |
| [Versioning](/versioning)                    | How versioning works.                                                                               |
| [Machines](/machines)                        | Configure the CPU and RAM of the machine your task runs on                                          |
| [Idempotency](/idempotency)                  | Protect against mutations happening twice.                                                          |
| [Replaying](/replaying)                      | You can replay a single task or many at once with a new version of your code.                       |
| [Max duration](/runs/max-duration)           | Set a maximum duration for your task to run.                                                        |
| [Tags](/tags)                                | Tags allow you to easily filter runs in the dashboard and when using the SDK.                       |
| [Metadata](/runs/metadata)                   | Attach a small amount of data to a run and update it as the run progresses.                         |
| [Usage](/run-usage)                          | Get compute duration and cost from inside a run, or for a specific block of code.                   |
| [Context](/context)                          | Access the context of the task run.                                                                 |
| [Bulk actions](/bulk-actions)                | Run actions on many task runs at once.                                                              |

<ExamplesCards />

Commit message:

Docs – v4 GA updates (#2298)
* Adds new features table to top of v4 upgrade guide

* Adds wait idempotency to wait-until, wait-for, and wait-for-token pages

* Adds new priority docs page and updates the v4 upgrade guide

* Adds new task lifecycle hooks

* Removes the message about requiring tasks to be exported

* Adds new global lifecycle hooks section

* Moves sections from upgrade guide into the table

* Adds hidden task page

* Improves the global lifecycle hooks section

* Updates middleware and locals section

* Adds new useWaitToken page to the react hooks section

* Adds a new ai.tool section

* Moves Docker (legacy) page into self-hosting section

* Removes known issues from v4 upgrade guide

* Replace “toolTask” with “ai.tool” in the Streams page example

* Renames guide to “Migrating from v3” and adds redirect

* Remove references to v4

* Removes changelog from migration guide

* The installation guide now references `@latest update`

* Changes all references from `/sdk/v3` to `/sdk`

* Updates @v4-beta to @latest

* Fixed broken link

* Fixes broken link

* Adds an upgrade to v4 using AI section

* Fixes 2 broken links

* Adds an entry for targetting preview branches

* Updates the run statuses

* Adds boolean helpers section to the runs and realtime pages

* Updates the concurrency page

* Updates the test page to include the new options

* Adds SDK and curl options for the preview branch targeting

* Updates new bulk actions page

* Remove the releasing concurrency section

* Got rid of some more @v4-beta mentions

* Improved rate limit docs

* Improved migrating docs

* Removed commented sections of the docs

* useWaitToken hook

* Fixed the description

* Fix for missing test image

---------

Co-authored-by: Matt Aitken <matt@mattaitken.com>
Co-authored-by: Dan <8297864+D-K-P@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/writing-tasks-introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "Writing tasks: Overview"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Tasks are the core of Trigger.dev. They are long-running processes that are triggered by events."
---

import ExamplesCards from "/snippets/examples-cards.mdx";

Before digging deeper into the details of writing tasks, you should read the [fundamentals of tasks](/tasks/overview) to understand what tasks are and how they work.

## Writing tasks

| Topic                                        | Description                                                                                         |
| :------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Logging](/logging)                          | View and send logs and traces from your tasks.                                                      |
| [Errors & retrying](/errors-retrying)        | How to deal with errors and write reliable tasks.                                                   |
| [Wait](/wait)                                | Wait for periods of time or for external events to occur before continuing.                         |
| [Concurrency & Queues](/queue-concurrency)   | Configure what you want to happen when there is more than one run at a time.                        |
| [Realtime notifications](/realtime/overview) | Send realtime notifications from your task that you can subscribe to from your backend or frontend. |
| [Versioning](/versioning)                    | How versioning works.                                                                               |
| [Machines](/machines)                        | Configure the CPU and RAM of the machine your task runs on                                          |
| [Idempotency](/idempotency)                  | Protect against mutations happening twice.                                                          |
| [Replaying](/replaying)                      | You can replay a single task or many at once with a new version of your code.                       |
| [Max duration](/runs/max-duration)           | Set a maximum duration for your task to run.                                                        |
| [Tags](/tags)                                | Tags allow you to easily filter runs in the dashboard and when using the SDK.                       |
| [Metadata](/runs/metadata)                   | Attach a small amount of data to a run and update it as the run progresses.                         |
| [Usage](/run-usage)                          | Get compute duration and cost from inside a run, or for a specific block of code.                   |
| [Context](/context)                          | Access the context of the task run.                                                                 |
| [Bulk actions](/bulk-actions)                | Run actions on many task runs at once.                                                              |
| [Priority](/runs/priority)                   | Specify a priority when triggering a task.                                                          |
| [Hidden tasks](/hidden-tasks)                | Create tasks that are not exported from your trigger files but can still be executed.               |

<ExamplesCards />
