docs/self-hosting/docker.mdx, before:

---
title: "Docker compose"
description: "You can self-host Trigger.dev on your own infrastructure using Docker."
---

The following instructions will use docker compose to spin up a Trigger.dev instance. Make sure to read the self-hosting [overview](/self-hosting/overview) first.

As self-hosted deployments tend to have unique requirements and configurations, we don't provide specific advice for securing your deployment, scaling up, or improving reliability.

Should the burden ever get too much, we'd be happy to see you on [Trigger.dev cloud](https://trigger.dev/pricing) where we deal with these concerns for you.

**Warning:** This guide alone is unlikely to result in a production-ready deployment. Security, scaling, and reliability concerns are not fully addressed here.

## What's new?

Goodbye v3, hello v4! We made quite a few changes:
- **Much simpler setup.** The provider and coordinator are now combined into a single supervisor. No more startup scripts, just `docker compose up`.
- **Automatic container cleanup.** The supervisor will automatically clean up containers that are no longer needed.
- **Support for multiple worker machines.** This is a big one, and we're very excited about it! You can now scale your workers horizontally as needed.
- **Resource limits enforced by default.** This means that tasks will be limited to the total CPU and RAM of the machine preset, preventing noisy neighbours.
- **No direct Docker socket access.** The compose file now comes with [Docker Socket Proxy](https://github.com/Tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy) by default. Yes, you want this.
- **No host networking.** All containers are now running with network isolation, using only the network access they need.
- **No checkpoint support.** This was only ever experimental when self-hosting and not recommended. It caused a bunch of issues. We decided to focus on the core features instead.
- **Built-in container registry and object storage.** You can now deploy and execute tasks without needing third party services for this.
- **Improved CLI commands.** You don't need any additional flags to deploy anymore, and there's a new command to easily `switch` between profiles.
- **Whitelisting for GitHub OAuth.** Any whitelisted email addresses will now also apply to sign ins via GitHub, unlike v3 where they only applied to magic links.

## Requirements

These are the minimum requirements for running the webapp and worker components. They can run on the same, or on separate machines.

It's fine to run everything on the same machine for testing. To be able to scale your workers, you will want to run them separately.

### Prerequisites

To run the webapp and worker components, you will need:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) 20.10.0+
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) 2.20.0+

### Webapp

This machine will host the webapp, postgres, redis, and related services.

- 2+ vCPU
- 4+ GB RAM

### Worker

This machine will host the supervisor and all of the runs.

- 2+ vCPU
- 4+ GB RAM

How many workers and resources you need will depend on your workloads and concurrency requirements.

For example:

- 10 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 5 vCPU and 5 GB RAM
- 20 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 10 vCPU and 10 GB RAM
- 100 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 50 vCPU and 50 GB RAM
- 100 concurrency x `small-2x` (1 vCPU, 1 GB RAM) = 100 vCPU and 100 GB RAM

You may need to spin up multiple workers to handle peak concurrency. The good news is you don't have to know the exact numbers upfront. You can start with a single worker and add more as needed.

## Setup

### Webapp

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev
cd trigger.dev/hosting/docker
```

2. Create a `.env` file

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start the webapp

```bash
cd webapp
docker compose up -d
```

4. Configure the webapp using the [environment variables](/self-hosting/env/webapp) in your `.env` file, then apply the changes:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

5. You should now be able to access the webapp at `http://localhost:8030`. When logging in, check the container logs for the magic link:

```bash
docker compose logs -f webapp
```

6. (optional) To initialize a new project, run the following command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta init -p <project-ref> -a http://localhost:8030
```

{/* 7. Bonus: Add traefik as a reverse proxy

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f ../docker-compose.traefik.yml up -d
``` */}

### Worker

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev
cd trigger.dev/hosting/docker
```

2. Create a `.env` file

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start the worker

```bash
cd worker
docker compose up -d
```

4. Configure the supervisor using the [environment variables](/self-hosting/env/supervisor) in your `.env` file, including the [worker token](#worker-token).

5. Apply the changes:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

6. Repeat as needed for additional workers.

### Combined

If you want to run the webapp and worker on the same machine, just replace the `up` command with the following:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker directory
docker compose -f webapp/docker-compose.yml -f worker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

{/* And optionally add traefik as a reverse proxy:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker directory
docker compose -f webapp/docker-compose.yml -f worker/docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.traefik.yml up -d
``` */}

## Worker token

When running the combined stack, worker bootstrap is handled automatically. When running the webapp and worker separately, you will need to manually set the worker token.

On the first run, the webapp will generate a worker token and store it in a shared volume. It will also print the token to the console. It should look something like this:

```bash
==========================
Trigger.dev Bootstrap - Worker Token

WARNING: This will only be shown once. Save it now!

Worker group:
bootstrap

Token:
tr_wgt_fgfAEjsTmvl4lowBLTbP7Xo563UlnVa206mr9uW6

If using docker compose, set:
TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN=tr_wgt_fgfAEjsTmvl4lowBLTbP7Xo563UlnVa206mr9uW6

Or, if using a file:
TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN=file:///home/node/shared/worker_token

==========================
```

You can then uncomment and set the `TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN` environment variable in your `.env` file.

Don't forget to restart the worker container for the changes to take effect:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker/worker directory
docker compose down
docker compose up -d
```

## Registry setup

The registry is used to store and pull deployment images. When testing the stack locally, the defaults should work out of the box.

When deploying to production, you will need to set the correct URL and generate secure credentials for the registry.

### Default settings

The default settings for the registry are:

- Registry: `localhost:5000`
- Username: `registry-user`
- Password: `very-secure-indeed`

You should change these before deploying to production, especially the password. You can find more information about how to do this in the official [registry docs](https://github.com/distribution/distribution/blob/735c161b53e7faf81a21ba94c55ac9edee081cd9/docs/deploying.md#native-basic-auth).

### Logging in

When self-hosting, builds run locally. You will have to login to the registry on every machine that runs the `deploy` command. You should only have to do this once:

```bash
docker login -u <username> <registry>
```

This will prompt for the password. Afterwards, the deploy command should work as expected.

## Object storage

This is mainly used for large payloads and outputs. There are a few simple steps to follow to get started.

### Default settings

The default settings for the object storage are:

- Endpoint: `http://localhost:9000`
- Username: `admin`
- Password: `very-safe-password`

You should change these before deploying to production, especially the password.

### Setup

1. Login to the dashboard: `http://localhost:9001`

2. Create a bucket named `packets`.

3. For production, you will want to set up a dedicated user and not use the root credentials above.

## Authentication

The specific set of variables required will depend on your choice of email transport or alternative login methods like GitHub OAuth.

### Magic link

By default, magic link auth is the only login option. If the `EMAIL_TRANSPORT` env var is not set, the magic links will be logged by the webapp container and not sent via email.

#### Resend

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=resend
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
RESEND_API_KEY=<your_resend_api_key>
```

#### SMTP

Note that setting `SMTP_SECURE=false` does _not_ mean the email is sent insecurely.
This simply means that the connection is secured using the modern STARTTLS protocol command instead of implicit TLS.
You should only set this to true when the SMTP server host directs you to do so (generally when using port 465)

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=smtp
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
SMTP_HOST=<your_smtp_server>
SMTP_PORT=587
SMTP_SECURE=false
SMTP_USER=<your_smtp_username>
SMTP_PASSWORD=<your_smtp_password>
```

#### AWS SES

Credentials are to be supplied as with any other program using the AWS SDK.

In this scenario, you would likely either supply the additional environment variables `AWS_REGION`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` or, when running on AWS, use credentials supplied by the EC2 IMDS.

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=aws-ses
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
```

### GitHub OAuth

To authenticate with GitHub, you will need to set up a GitHub OAuth app. It needs a callback URL `https://<your_webapp_domain>/auth/github/callback` and you will have to set the following env vars:

```bash
AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=<your_client_id>
AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=<your_client_secret>
```

### Restricting access

All email addresses can sign up and log in this way. If you would like to restrict this, you can use the `WHITELISTED_EMAILS` env var. For example:

```bash
# every email that does not match this regex will be rejected
WHITELISTED_EMAILS="authorized@yahoo\.com|authorized@gmail\.com"
```

This will apply to all auth methods including magic link and GitHub OAuth.

## Version locking

There are several reasons to lock the version of your Docker images:
- **Backwards compatibility.** We try our best to maintain compatibility with older CLI versions, but it's not always possible. If you don't want to update your CLI, you can lock your Docker images to that specific version.
- **Ensuring full feature support.** Sometimes, new CLI releases will also require new or updated platform features. Running unlocked images can make any issues difficult to debug. Using a specific tag can help here as well.

By default, the images will point at the latest versioned release via the `v4-beta` tag. You can override this by specifying a different tag in your `.env` file. For example:

```bash
TRIGGER_IMAGE_TAG=v4.0.0-v4-beta.21
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Deployment fails at the push step.** The machine running `deploy` needs registry access. See the [registry setup](#registry-setup) section for more details.

- **Magic links don't arrive.** The webapp container needs to be able to send emails. You probably need to set up an email transport. See the [authentication](#authentication) section for more details.

  You should check the logs of the webapp container to see the magic link:

  ```bash
  # Run this from the /hosting/docker/webapp directory
  docker compose logs -f webapp
  ```

## CLI usage

This section highlights some of the CLI commands and options that are useful when self-hosting. Please check the [CLI reference](/cli-introduction) for more in-depth documentation.

### Login

To avoid being redirected to [Trigger.dev Cloud](https://cloud.trigger.dev) when using the CLI, you need to specify the URL of your self-hosted instance with the `--api-url` or `-a` flag. For example:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta login -a http://trigger.example.com
```

Once you've logged in, you shouldn't have to specify the URL again with other commands.

### Profiles

You can specify a profile when logging in. This allows you to easily use the CLI with multiple instances of Trigger.dev. For example:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta login -a http://trigger.example.com \
    --profile self-hosted
```

Logging in with a new profile will also make it the new default profile.

To use a specific profile, you can use the `--profile` flag with other commands:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta dev --profile self-hosted
```

To list all your profiles, use the `list-profiles` command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta list-profiles
```

To remove a profile, use the `logout` command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta logout --profile self-hosted
```

To switch to a different profile, use the `switch` command:

```bash
# To run interactively
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta switch

# To switch to a specific profile
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta switch self-hosted
```

### Whoami

It can be useful to check you are logged into the correct instance. Running this will also show the API URL:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta whoami
```

## CI / GitHub Actions

When running the CLI in a CI environment, your login profiles won't be available. Instead, you can use the `TRIGGER_API_URL` and `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment 
variables to point at your self-hosted instance and authenticate.

For more detailed instructions, see the [GitHub Actions guide](/github-actions).

## Telemetry

By default, the Trigger.dev webapp sends telemetry data to our servers. This data is used to improve the product and is not shared with third parties. If you would like to opt-out of this, you can set the `TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED` environment variable on the webapp container. The value doesn't matter, it just can't be empty. For example:

```yaml
services:
  webapp:
    ...
    environment:
      TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED: 1
```

Commit message:

Docker self-hosting improvements (#2177)
* shallow clone

* fix image tag locking example

* electric should use db url env var

* add htpasswd note

* use local driver with log rotation by default

* make worker urls more easily configurable

* configure dev otel endpoint via .env

* increase min recommended worker specs

* move worker url section

docs/self-hosting/docker.mdx, after:

---
title: "Docker compose"
description: "You can self-host Trigger.dev on your own infrastructure using Docker."
---

The following instructions will use docker compose to spin up a Trigger.dev instance. Make sure to read the self-hosting [overview](/self-hosting/overview) first.

As self-hosted deployments tend to have unique requirements and configurations, we don't provide specific advice for securing your deployment, scaling up, or improving reliability.

Should the burden ever get too much, we'd be happy to see you on [Trigger.dev cloud](https://trigger.dev/pricing) where we deal with these concerns for you.

**Warning:** This guide alone is unlikely to result in a production-ready deployment. Security, scaling, and reliability concerns are not fully addressed here.

## What's new?

Goodbye v3, hello v4! We made quite a few changes:
- **Much simpler setup.** The provider and coordinator are now combined into a single supervisor. No more startup scripts, just `docker compose up`.
- **Automatic container cleanup.** The supervisor will automatically clean up containers that are no longer needed.
- **Support for multiple worker machines.** This is a big one, and we're very excited about it! You can now scale your workers horizontally as needed.
- **Resource limits enforced by default.** This means that tasks will be limited to the total CPU and RAM of the machine preset, preventing noisy neighbours.
- **No direct Docker socket access.** The compose file now comes with [Docker Socket Proxy](https://github.com/Tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy) by default. Yes, you want this.
- **No host networking.** All containers are now running with network isolation, using only the network access they need.
- **No checkpoint support.** This was only ever experimental when self-hosting and not recommended. It caused a bunch of issues. We decided to focus on the core features instead.
- **Built-in container registry and object storage.** You can now deploy and execute tasks without needing third party services for this.
- **Improved CLI commands.** You don't need any additional flags to deploy anymore, and there's a new command to easily `switch` between profiles.
- **Whitelisting for GitHub OAuth.** Any whitelisted email addresses will now also apply to sign ins via GitHub, unlike v3 where they only applied to magic links.

## Requirements

These are the minimum requirements for running the webapp and worker components. They can run on the same, or on separate machines.

It's fine to run everything on the same machine for testing. To be able to scale your workers, you will want to run them separately.

### Prerequisites

To run the webapp and worker components, you will need:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) 20.10.0+
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) 2.20.0+

### Webapp

This machine will host the webapp, postgres, redis, and related services.

- 2+ vCPU
- 4+ GB RAM

### Worker

This machine will host the supervisor and all of the runs.

- 4+ vCPU
- 8+ GB RAM

How many workers and resources you need will depend on your workloads and concurrency requirements.

For example:

- 10 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 5 vCPU and 5 GB RAM
- 20 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 10 vCPU and 10 GB RAM
- 100 concurrency x `small-1x` (0.5 vCPU, 0.5 GB RAM) = 50 vCPU and 50 GB RAM
- 100 concurrency x `small-2x` (1 vCPU, 1 GB RAM) = 100 vCPU and 100 GB RAM

You may need to spin up multiple workers to handle peak concurrency. The good news is you don't have to know the exact numbers upfront. You can start with a single worker and add more as needed.

## Setup

### Webapp

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev
cd trigger.dev/hosting/docker
```

2. Create a `.env` file

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start the webapp

```bash
cd webapp
docker compose up -d
```

4. Configure the webapp using the [environment variables](/self-hosting/env/webapp) in your `.env` file, then apply the changes:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

5. You should now be able to access the webapp at `http://localhost:8030`. When logging in, check the container logs for the magic link:

```bash
docker compose logs -f webapp
```

6. (optional) To initialize a new project, run the following command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta init -p <project-ref> -a http://localhost:8030
```

{/* 7. Bonus: Add traefik as a reverse proxy

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f ../docker-compose.traefik.yml up -d
``` */}

### Worker

1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/triggerdotdev/trigger.dev
cd trigger.dev/hosting/docker
```

2. Create a `.env` file

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3. Start the worker

```bash
cd worker
docker compose up -d
```

4. Configure the supervisor using the [environment variables](/self-hosting/env/supervisor) in your `.env` file, including the [worker token](#worker-token).

5. Apply the changes:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

6. Repeat as needed for additional workers.

### Combined

If you want to run the webapp and worker on the same machine, just replace the `up` command with the following:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker directory
docker compose -f webapp/docker-compose.yml -f worker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

{/* And optionally add traefik as a reverse proxy:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker directory
docker compose -f webapp/docker-compose.yml -f worker/docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.traefik.yml up -d
``` */}

## Worker token

When running the combined stack, worker bootstrap is handled automatically. When running the webapp and worker separately, you will need to manually set the worker token.

On the first run, the webapp will generate a worker token and store it in a shared volume. It will also print the token to the console. It should look something like this:

```bash
==========================
Trigger.dev Bootstrap - Worker Token

WARNING: This will only be shown once. Save it now!

Worker group:
bootstrap

Token:
tr_wgt_fgfAEjsTmvl4lowBLTbP7Xo563UlnVa206mr9uW6

If using docker compose, set:
TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN=tr_wgt_fgfAEjsTmvl4lowBLTbP7Xo563UlnVa206mr9uW6

Or, if using a file:
TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN=file:///home/node/shared/worker_token

==========================
```

You can then uncomment and set the `TRIGGER_WORKER_TOKEN` environment variable in your `.env` file.

Don't forget to restart the worker container for the changes to take effect:

```bash
# Run this from the /hosting/docker/worker directory
docker compose down
docker compose up -d
```

## Registry setup

The registry is used to store and pull deployment images. When testing the stack locally, the defaults should work out of the box.

When deploying to production, you will need to set the correct URL and generate secure credentials for the registry.

### Default settings

The default settings for the registry are:

- Registry: `localhost:5000`
- Username: `registry-user`
- Password: `very-secure-indeed`

You should change these before deploying to production, especially the password. You can find more information about how to do this in the official [registry docs](https://github.com/distribution/distribution/blob/735c161b53e7faf81a21ba94c55ac9edee081cd9/docs/deploying.md#native-basic-auth).

**Note:** This will require modifying the default `.htpasswd` file located at `./hosting/docker/registry/auth.htpasswd` of the repo root.

### Logging in

When self-hosting, builds run locally. You will have to login to the registry on every machine that runs the `deploy` command. You should only have to do this once:

```bash
docker login -u <username> <registry>
```

This will prompt for the password. Afterwards, the deploy command should work as expected.

## Object storage

This is mainly used for large payloads and outputs. There are a few simple steps to follow to get started.

### Default settings

The default settings for the object storage are:

- Endpoint: `http://localhost:9000`
- Username: `admin`
- Password: `very-safe-password`

You should change these before deploying to production, especially the password.

### Setup

1. Login to the dashboard: `http://localhost:9001`

2. Create a bucket named `packets`.

3. For production, you will want to set up a dedicated user and not use the root credentials above.

## Authentication

The specific set of variables required will depend on your choice of email transport or alternative login methods like GitHub OAuth.

### Magic link

By default, magic link auth is the only login option. If the `EMAIL_TRANSPORT` env var is not set, the magic links will be logged by the webapp container and not sent via email.

#### Resend

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=resend
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
RESEND_API_KEY=<your_resend_api_key>
```

#### SMTP

Note that setting `SMTP_SECURE=false` does _not_ mean the email is sent insecurely.
This simply means that the connection is secured using the modern STARTTLS protocol command instead of implicit TLS.
You should only set this to true when the SMTP server host directs you to do so (generally when using port 465)

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=smtp
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
SMTP_HOST=<your_smtp_server>
SMTP_PORT=587
SMTP_SECURE=false
SMTP_USER=<your_smtp_username>
SMTP_PASSWORD=<your_smtp_password>
```

#### AWS SES

Credentials are to be supplied as with any other program using the AWS SDK.

In this scenario, you would likely either supply the additional environment variables `AWS_REGION`, `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` or, when running on AWS, use credentials supplied by the EC2 IMDS.

```bash
EMAIL_TRANSPORT=aws-ses
FROM_EMAIL=
REPLY_TO_EMAIL=
```

### GitHub OAuth

To authenticate with GitHub, you will need to set up a GitHub OAuth app. It needs a callback URL `https://<your_webapp_domain>/auth/github/callback` and you will have to set the following env vars:

```bash
AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=<your_client_id>
AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=<your_client_secret>
```

### Restricting access

All email addresses can sign up and log in this way. If you would like to restrict this, you can use the `WHITELISTED_EMAILS` env var. For example:

```bash
# every email that does not match this regex will be rejected
WHITELISTED_EMAILS="authorized@yahoo\.com|authorized@gmail\.com"
```

This will apply to all auth methods including magic link and GitHub OAuth.

## Version locking

There are several reasons to lock the version of your Docker images:
- **Backwards compatibility.** We try our best to maintain compatibility with older CLI versions, but it's not always possible. If you don't want to update your CLI, you can lock your Docker images to that specific version.
- **Ensuring full feature support.** Sometimes, new CLI releases will also require new or updated platform features. Running unlocked images can make any issues difficult to debug. Using a specific tag can help here as well.

By default, the images will point at the latest versioned release via the `v4-beta` tag. You can override this by specifying a different tag in your `.env` file. For example:

```bash
TRIGGER_IMAGE_TAG=v4.0.0-v4-beta.21
```

## Troubleshooting

- **Deployment fails at the push step.** The machine running `deploy` needs registry access. See the [registry setup](#registry-setup) section for more details.

- **Magic links don't arrive.** The webapp container needs to be able to send emails. You probably need to set up an email transport. See the [authentication](#authentication) section for more details.

  You should check the logs of the webapp container to see the magic link:

  ```bash
  # Run this from the /hosting/docker/webapp directory
  docker compose logs -f webapp
  ```

## CLI usage

This section highlights some of the CLI commands and options that are useful when self-hosting. Please check the [CLI reference](/cli-introduction) for more in-depth documentation.

### Login

To avoid being redirected to [Trigger.dev Cloud](https://cloud.trigger.dev) when using the CLI, you need to specify the URL of your self-hosted instance with the `--api-url` or `-a` flag. For example:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta login -a http://trigger.example.com
```

Once you've logged in, you shouldn't have to specify the URL again with other commands.

### Profiles

You can specify a profile when logging in. This allows you to easily use the CLI with multiple instances of Trigger.dev. For example:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta login -a http://trigger.example.com \
    --profile self-hosted
```

Logging in with a new profile will also make it the new default profile.

To use a specific profile, you can use the `--profile` flag with other commands:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta dev --profile self-hosted
```

To list all your profiles, use the `list-profiles` command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta list-profiles
```

To remove a profile, use the `logout` command:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta logout --profile self-hosted
```

To switch to a different profile, use the `switch` command:

```bash
# To run interactively
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta switch

# To switch to a specific profile
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta switch self-hosted
```

### Whoami

It can be useful to check you are logged into the correct instance. Running this will also show the API URL:

```bash
npx trigger.dev@v4-beta whoami
```

## CI / GitHub Actions

When running the CLI in a CI environment, your login profiles won't be available. Instead, you can use the `TRIGGER_API_URL` and `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment 
variables to point at your self-hosted instance and authenticate.

For more detailed instructions, see the [GitHub Actions guide](/github-actions).

## Telemetry

By default, the Trigger.dev webapp sends telemetry data to our servers. This data is used to improve the product and is not shared with third parties. If you would like to opt-out of this, you can set the `TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED` environment variable on the webapp container. The value doesn't matter, it just can't be empty. For example:

```yaml
services:
  webapp:
    ...
    environment:
      TRIGGER_TELEMETRY_DISABLED: 1
```
