docs/self-hosting/kubernetes.mdx, before:

---
title: "Kubernetes"
description: "You can self-host Trigger.dev in Kubernetes using our official Helm chart."
---

The following instructions will help you deploy Trigger.dev to Kubernetes using our official Helm chart. Make sure to read the self-hosting [overview](/self-hosting/overview) first.

As self-hosted deployments tend to have unique requirements and configurations, we don't provide specific advice for securing your deployment, scaling up, or improving reliability.

Should the burden ever get too much, we'd be happy to see you on [Trigger.dev cloud](https://trigger.dev/pricing) where we deal with these concerns for you.

**Warning:** This guide alone is unlikely to result in a production-ready deployment. Security, scaling, and reliability concerns are not fully addressed here.

## Requirements

### Prerequisites
- Kubernetes cluster 1.19+
- Helm 3.8+
- Kubectl configured with cluster access

### Resource requirements

The following are minimum requirements for running the entire Trigger.dev stack on Kubernetes:

**Cluster resources:**
- 6+ vCPU total
- 12+ GB RAM total
- Persistent volume support

**Individual components:**
- **Webapp**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Supervisor**: 1 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **PostgreSQL**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Redis**: 0.5 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **ClickHouse**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Object Storage**: 0.5 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **Workers**: Depending on concurrency and machine preset

These requirements scale based on your task concurrency and can be adjusted via the `resources` section in your `values.yaml`. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 500m
      memory: 1Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2000m
      memory: 4Gi
```

## Installation

### Quick start

1. Install with default values (for testing only):

```bash
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --create-namespace
```

2. Access the webapp:

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/trigger-webapp 3040:3030 -n trigger
```

3. Open the dashboard: `http://localhost:3040`

## Configuration

The default installation uses insecure secrets and is only suitable for testing. You _will_ need to configure your own secrets as a bare minimum.

Most values map directly to the environment variables documented in the [webapp](/self-hosting/env/webapp) and [supervisor](/self-hosting/env/supervisor) environment variable overview.

**Naming convention:**
- Environment variables use `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- Helm values use `camelCase`

**Example mapping:**
```bash
# Environment variable
APP_ORIGIN=https://trigger.example.com

# Becomes Helm value
config:
  appOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
```

### Custom values

Create a `values-custom.yaml` file. For example:

```yaml
# Required: Generate new secrets with `openssl rand -hex 16`
secrets:
  sessionSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-1"
  magicLinkSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-2"
  encryptionKey: "your-32-char-hex-secret-3"
  managedWorkerSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-4"

# Application URLs
config:
  appOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
  loginOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
  apiOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"

# Resource limits
webapp:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2000m
      memory: 4Gi

supervisor:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 200m
      memory: 512Mi
    limits:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2Gi
```

Deploy with your custom values:

```bash
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --create-namespace \
  -f values-custom.yaml
```

### Extra env

You can set extra environment variables on all services. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: EXTRA_ENV_VAR
      value: "extra-value"
```

### Extra annotations

You can set extra annotations on all services. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  podAnnotations:
    "my-annotation": "my-value"
```

### External services

You can disable the built-in services and use external services instead. For example:

```yaml
postgres:
  enabled: false
  external: true
  externalConnection:
    host: "my-postgres.example.com"
    port: 5432
    database: "my-database"
    username: "my-username"
    password: "my-password"
```

## Worker token

When using the default bootstrap configuration, worker creation and authentication is handled automatically. The webapp generates a worker token and makes it available to the supervisor via a shared volume.

### Bootstrap (default)

```yaml
webapp:
  bootstrap:
    enabled: true
    workerGroupName: "bootstrap"
```

### Manual

If you need to set up workers separately or use a custom token:

1. Get the worker token from the webapp logs:

```bash
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-webapp -n trigger | grep -A15 "Worker Token"
```

2. Create a secret with the token:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic worker-token \
  --from-literal=token=tr_wgt_your_token_here \
  -n trigger
```

3. Configure the supervisor to use the secret:

```yaml
supervisor:
  bootstrap:
    enabled: false
    workerToken:
      secret:
        name: "worker-token"
        key: "token"
```

## Registry Setup

See the [Docker registry setup](/self-hosting/docker#registry-setup) for conceptual information. The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
# Use external registry (recommended)
registry:
  external: true
  # Part of deployment image ref, for example: your-registry.example.com/your-company/proj_123:20250625.1.prod
  repositoryNamespace: "your-company"
  externalConnection:
    host: "your-registry.example.com"
    port: 5000
    auth:
      enabled: true
      username: "your-username"
      password: "your-password"
```

<Note>
The internal registry (`registry.external: false`) is experimental and requires proper TLS setup and additional cluster configuration. Use an external registry for production.
</Note>

## Object Storage

See the [Docker object storage setup](/self-hosting/docker#object-storage) for conceptual information. The defaults will use built-in MinIO, but you can use an external S3-compatible storage. The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
# Use external S3-compatible storage
minio:
  enabled: false
  external: true
  externalConnection:
    url: "https://s3.amazonaws.com"
    # or: "https://your-minio.com:9000"

# Configure credentials
secrets:
  objectStore:
    accessKeyId: "admin"
    secretAccessKey: "very-safe-password"
```

## Authentication

Authentication options are identical to the [Docker-based installation](/self-hosting/docker#authentication). The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

**GitHub OAuth:**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID
      value: "your-github-client-id"
    - name: AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET
      value: "your-github-client-secret"
```

**Email authentication (Resend):**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: EMAIL_TRANSPORT
      value: "resend"
    - name: FROM_EMAIL
      value: "noreply@yourdomain.com"
    - name: REPLY_TO_EMAIL
      value: "support@yourdomain.com"
    - name: RESEND_API_KEY
      value: "your-resend-api-key"
```

**Restricting access:**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: WHITELISTED_EMAILS
      value: "user1@company\\.com|user2@company\\.com"
```

## Version Locking

You can lock versions in two ways:

**Helm Chart Version (recommended):**
```bash
# Ensure specific chart version
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --version 4.0.0-beta.3
```

**Specific Image Tags:**
```yaml
webapp:
  image:
    tag: "v4.0.0-v4-beta.21"

supervisor:
  image:
    tag: "v4.0.0-v4-beta.21"
```

The chart version's `appVersion` field determines the default image tags. Using chart versions ensures compatibility between all components. Newer image tags may be incompatible with older chart versions and vice versa.

## Troubleshooting

**Check logs:**
```bash
# Webapp logs
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-webapp -n trigger -f 

# Supervisor logs
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-supervisor -n trigger -f 

# All pods
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=trigger -n trigger -f 
```

**Check pod status:**
```bash
kubectl get pods -n trigger
kubectl describe pod <pod-name> -n trigger
```

**Start from scratch:**
```bash
# Delete the release
helm uninstall trigger -n trigger

# Delete persistent volumes (if needed) - careful, this will delete all data
kubectl delete pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=trigger -n trigger

# Delete the namespace (optional)
kubectl delete namespace trigger
```

**Common issues:**
- **Magic links not working**: Check webapp logs for email delivery errors
- **Deploy fails**: Verify registry access and authentication
- **Pods stuck pending**: Describe the pod and check the events
- **Worker token issues**: Check webapp and supervisor logs for errors

## CLI Usage

See the [Docker CLI usage](/self-hosting/docker#cli-usage) section, the commands are identical regardless of deployment method.

<Note>
While v4 is in beta, always use `@v4-beta` instead of `@latest`. For example: `npx trigger.dev@v4-beta dev`
</Note>

## CI / GitHub Actions

When running the CLI in a CI environment, your login profiles won't be available. Instead, you can use the `TRIGGER_API_URL` and `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment 
variables to point at your self-hosted instance and authenticate.

For more detailed instructions, see the [GitHub Actions guide](/github-actions).

## Telemetry

By default, the Trigger.dev webapp sends telemetry data to our servers. This data is used to improve the product and is not shared with third parties. To disable telemetry, set in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
telemetry:
  enabled: false
```

Commit message:

add v4-beta package version warning

docs/self-hosting/kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
title: "Kubernetes"
description: "You can self-host Trigger.dev in Kubernetes using our official Helm chart."
---

The following instructions will help you deploy Trigger.dev to Kubernetes using our official Helm chart. Make sure to read the self-hosting [overview](/self-hosting/overview) first.

As self-hosted deployments tend to have unique requirements and configurations, we don't provide specific advice for securing your deployment, scaling up, or improving reliability.

Should the burden ever get too much, we'd be happy to see you on [Trigger.dev cloud](https://trigger.dev/pricing) where we deal with these concerns for you.

**Warning:** This guide alone is unlikely to result in a production-ready deployment. Security, scaling, and reliability concerns are not fully addressed here.

## Requirements

### Prerequisites
- Kubernetes cluster 1.19+
- Helm 3.8+
- Kubectl configured with cluster access

### Resource requirements

The following are minimum requirements for running the entire Trigger.dev stack on Kubernetes:

**Cluster resources:**
- 6+ vCPU total
- 12+ GB RAM total
- Persistent volume support

**Individual components:**
- **Webapp**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Supervisor**: 1 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **PostgreSQL**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Redis**: 0.5 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **ClickHouse**: 1 vCPU, 2 GB RAM
- **Object Storage**: 0.5 vCPU, 1 GB RAM
- **Workers**: Depending on concurrency and machine preset

These requirements scale based on your task concurrency and can be adjusted via the `resources` section in your `values.yaml`. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 500m
      memory: 1Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2000m
      memory: 4Gi
```

## Installation

### Quick start

1. Install with default values (for testing only):

```bash
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --create-namespace
```

2. Access the webapp:

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/trigger-webapp 3040:3030 -n trigger
```

3. Open the dashboard: `http://localhost:3040`

4. Login with the magic link:

```bash
# Check the webapp logs
kubectl logs -n trigger deployment/trigger-webapp | grep -A1 "magic link"
```

<Note>
While v4 is in beta, always use `@v4-beta` instead of `@latest`. For example: `npx trigger.dev@v4-beta dev`
</Note>

## Configuration

The default installation uses insecure secrets and is only suitable for testing. You _will_ need to configure your own secrets as a bare minimum.

Most values map directly to the environment variables documented in the [webapp](/self-hosting/env/webapp) and [supervisor](/self-hosting/env/supervisor) environment variable overview.

**Naming convention:**
- Environment variables use `UPPER_SNAKE_CASE`
- Helm values use `camelCase`

**Example mapping:**
```bash
# Environment variable
APP_ORIGIN=https://trigger.example.com

# Becomes Helm value
config:
  appOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
```

### Custom values

Create a `values-custom.yaml` file. For example:

```yaml
# Required: Generate new secrets with `openssl rand -hex 16`
secrets:
  sessionSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-1"
  magicLinkSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-2"
  encryptionKey: "your-32-char-hex-secret-3"
  managedWorkerSecret: "your-32-char-hex-secret-4"

# Application URLs
config:
  appOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
  loginOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"
  apiOrigin: "https://trigger.example.com"

# Resource limits
webapp:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2Gi
    limits:
      cpu: 2000m
      memory: 4Gi

supervisor:
  resources:
    requests:
      cpu: 200m
      memory: 512Mi
    limits:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2Gi
```

Deploy with your custom values:

```bash
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --create-namespace \
  -f values-custom.yaml
```

### Extra env

You can set extra environment variables on all services. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: EXTRA_ENV_VAR
      value: "extra-value"
```

### Extra annotations

You can set extra annotations on all services. For example:

```yaml
webapp:
  podAnnotations:
    "my-annotation": "my-value"
```

### External services

You can disable the built-in services and use external services instead. For example:

```yaml
postgres:
  enabled: false
  external: true
  externalConnection:
    host: "my-postgres.example.com"
    port: 5432
    database: "my-database"
    username: "my-username"
    password: "my-password"
```

## Worker token

When using the default bootstrap configuration, worker creation and authentication is handled automatically. The webapp generates a worker token and makes it available to the supervisor via a shared volume.

### Bootstrap (default)

```yaml
webapp:
  bootstrap:
    enabled: true
    workerGroupName: "bootstrap"
```

### Manual

If you need to set up workers separately or use a custom token:

1. Get the worker token from the webapp logs:

```bash
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-webapp -n trigger | grep -A15 "Worker Token"
```

2. Create a secret with the token:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic worker-token \
  --from-literal=token=tr_wgt_your_token_here \
  -n trigger
```

3. Configure the supervisor to use the secret:

```yaml
supervisor:
  bootstrap:
    enabled: false
    workerToken:
      secret:
        name: "worker-token"
        key: "token"
```

## Registry Setup

See the [Docker registry setup](/self-hosting/docker#registry-setup) for conceptual information. The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
# Use external registry (recommended)
registry:
  external: true
  # Part of deployment image ref, for example: your-registry.example.com/your-company/proj_123:20250625.1.prod
  repositoryNamespace: "your-company"
  externalConnection:
    host: "your-registry.example.com"
    port: 5000
    auth:
      enabled: true
      username: "your-username"
      password: "your-password"
```

<Note>
The internal registry (`registry.external: false`) is experimental and requires proper TLS setup and additional cluster configuration. Use an external registry for production.
</Note>

## Object Storage

See the [Docker object storage setup](/self-hosting/docker#object-storage) for conceptual information. The defaults will use built-in MinIO, but you can use an external S3-compatible storage. The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
# Use external S3-compatible storage
minio:
  enabled: false
  external: true
  externalConnection:
    url: "https://s3.amazonaws.com"
    # or: "https://your-minio.com:9000"

# Configure credentials
secrets:
  objectStore:
    accessKeyId: "admin"
    secretAccessKey: "very-safe-password"
```

## Authentication

Authentication options are identical to the [Docker-based installation](/self-hosting/docker#authentication). The configuration is specified in your `values.yaml`:

**GitHub OAuth:**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID
      value: "your-github-client-id"
    - name: AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET
      value: "your-github-client-secret"
```

**Email authentication (Resend):**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: EMAIL_TRANSPORT
      value: "resend"
    - name: FROM_EMAIL
      value: "noreply@yourdomain.com"
    - name: REPLY_TO_EMAIL
      value: "support@yourdomain.com"
    - name: RESEND_API_KEY
      value: "your-resend-api-key"
```

**Restricting access:**
```yaml
webapp:
  extraEnv:
    - name: WHITELISTED_EMAILS
      value: "user1@company\\.com|user2@company\\.com"
```

## Version Locking

You can lock versions in two ways:

**Helm Chart Version (recommended):**
```bash
# Ensure specific chart version
helm upgrade -n trigger --install trigger \
  oci://ghcr.io/triggerdotdev/charts/trigger:4.0.0-beta.3 \
  --version 4.0.0-beta.3
```

**Specific Image Tags:**
```yaml
webapp:
  image:
    tag: "v4.0.0-v4-beta.21"

supervisor:
  image:
    tag: "v4.0.0-v4-beta.21"
```

The chart version's `appVersion` field determines the default image tags. Using chart versions ensures compatibility between all components. Newer image tags may be incompatible with older chart versions and vice versa.

## Troubleshooting

**Check logs:**
```bash
# Webapp logs
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-webapp -n trigger -f 

# Supervisor logs
kubectl logs deployment/trigger-supervisor -n trigger -f 

# All pods
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=trigger -n trigger -f 
```

**Check pod status:**
```bash
kubectl get pods -n trigger
kubectl describe pod <pod-name> -n trigger
```

**Start from scratch:**
```bash
# Delete the release
helm uninstall trigger -n trigger

# Delete persistent volumes (if needed) - careful, this will delete all data
kubectl delete pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=trigger -n trigger

# Delete the namespace (optional)
kubectl delete namespace trigger
```

**Common issues:**
- **Magic links not working**: Check webapp logs for email delivery errors
- **Deploy fails**: Verify registry access and authentication
- **Pods stuck pending**: Describe the pod and check the events
- **Worker token issues**: Check webapp and supervisor logs for errors

## CLI Usage

See the [Docker CLI usage](/self-hosting/docker#cli-usage) section, the commands are identical regardless of deployment method.

<Note>
While v4 is in beta, always use `@v4-beta` instead of `@latest`. For example: `npx trigger.dev@v4-beta dev`
</Note>

## CI / GitHub Actions

When running the CLI in a CI environment, your login profiles won't be available. Instead, you can use the `TRIGGER_API_URL` and `TRIGGER_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment 
variables to point at your self-hosted instance and authenticate.

For more detailed instructions, see the [GitHub Actions guide](/github-actions).

## Telemetry

By default, the Trigger.dev webapp sends telemetry data to our servers. This data is used to improve the product and is not shared with third parties. To disable telemetry, set in your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
telemetry:
  enabled: false
```
